content/weekly-agenda/23-03-13/index.md, before:

---
title: Weekly Agenda - 13th of March 2023 week
date: 2023-03-08T08:02:03.005Z
author: Vesa Juvonen
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories:
  - weekly agenda
images:
  - images/weeklyagenda11.png
tags: []
type: trending
draft: false
---

We want to give you a better overview on what's happening each week. This is a summary blog post of all the community activities such as community calls and presenters, newly uploaded videos, upcoming events and more 🚀

Get involved by joining a call! We host a variety of [community calls](https://aka.ms/community/calls) each week, where we demo solutions, announce new features and where you can connect with like-minded people. These calls are for everyone to join, simply download the recurrent invite and get involved.

This is the agenda for the following week:

### Microsoft 365 & Power Platform weekly call - 14th of March

* Tuesday, 7th of March 2023, 8:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 & Power Platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-platform-call/)

Demos this time

* [Dan Wahlin](https://twitter.com/DanWahlin) (Microsoft) | @DanWahlin - Deploying the Azure Communications Services Application to Azure
* Gary Pretty (Microsoft) – Take advantage of latest Power Virtual Agents improvements
* [Waldek Mastykarz](https://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) | @Waldekm - Microsoft Graph Hackathon – Recap on the second week

### Power Platform monthly Community Call - 15th of March

* Wednesday, 15th of March, 8:00 AM PT / 4:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/powerplatformcommunitycall) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/PowerPlatformMonthlyCall) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Power Platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/power-apps-community-call/)

Demos: 

* From Epilepsy to MVP - Empowerment using the Power Platform - [Daniel Christian](https://twitter.com/dchristian19) | @dchristian19
* Igniting a Power Automate Revolution: What Happens When Salespeople like to Click Buttons? - [Gizzelle Akin](https://twitter.com/gizzelleakin) | @gizzelleakin
* Quality Assurance with Power Platform Pipelines using Power Apps - [Nati Turtledove](https://twitter.com/NatiTurts) | @NatiTurts


Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

**Interested on doing a demo here?** - [Let us know](https://aka.ms/community/request/demo) and we'll get you scheduled!

### Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community Call - 16th of March

Typically demos here are from the community by the community. You are welcome to demo here 👋

* Thursday, 16th of March, 2023, 7:00 AM PT / 2:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Development](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-and-power-platform-development-community-call/)

Demos: 

* [Matt Jimison](https://twitter.com/mjimison) (Takeda) | @mjimison - Harnessing the Power of Open AI inside Power Virtual Agents
* [Hugo Bernier](https://twitter.com/bernierh) (Microsoft) | @Bernierh - Editing Site Headers in Power Pages

Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

**Interested on doing a demo here?** - [Let us know](https://aka.ms/community/request/demo) and we'll get you scheduled!

### Microsoft identity platform community call - 17th of March

* Thursday, 17th of March, 2023, 9:00 AM PT / 4:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/IDDEVCommunityCall) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/IDDEVCommunityCall-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft identity platform community call](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-identity-platform-community-call/)

Topic:
* Staying Up to Date with Authentication for JavaScript Applications 

## New videos

Update of the newly published videos in our YouTube channel [Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_mKdhw-V6CeCM7gTo_Iy7w) - Subscribe today! ✅

* [Upcoming Preview Word APIs - March 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zn28EyMIScQ) by Yun Wang (Microsoft)
* [Power Platform Release Planner - your new superpower!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AS2eES2KPPc) by [Vivian Voss](https://twitter.com/VivianTiiman) (Avanade) | @VivianTiiman
* [What's next for the Microsoft Graph Toolkit!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lFobFO2G1-8) by [Sébastien Levert](https://twitter.com/sebastienlevert) (Microsoft) | @sebastienlevert & [Gavin Barron](https://twitter.com/gavinbarron) (Microsoft) | @gavinbarron
* [Setup and launch Viva Connections in under 5 minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wnZAB-lZHfw&t=37s) by [Anshuman Gaur](https://twitter.com/_AnshumanGaur) (Microsoft) | @_AnshumanGaur
* [Developing a personal wellness app to prevent burnout using Power Apps and SharePoint](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hvWJ5YVukMU&t=9s) by [Carlos Solís](https://twitter.com/CarlosBKSolis1) | @CarlosBKSolis1
* [Getting started on your SPFx form customizer journey with a boilerplate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LhlV5dhjLX0) by [Michaël Maillot](https://twitter.com/michael_maillot) (OnePoint) | @michael_maillot
* [Get your Apps ready for Zero Trust – February 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hwoEhMdSo7U&t=9s) by [Marcus Carvalho](https://twitter.com/marcusca10) (Microsoft) | @marcusca10
* [Create Playlists in Microsoft 365](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_Gl629X5tU&t=505s)


We also release new playlist focusing on the [Microsoft Teams app camp](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU) and development scenarios. Please see the following new videos for more details.

* [Microsoft Teams App Camp: Get started with Teams app development and monetization](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFwLfG95rVU&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=1)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Microsoft Teams Marketplace Strategy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcwcOFu8QBU&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=2) - Masako Kodama (Microsoft)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - 5 Steps to Monetize your Teams Application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J7XSf3x05SU&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=3) - James Skay (Microsoft)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Buying a Teams Application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nuOjlTnoj7s&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=4)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Anatomy of a SaaS Application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CrvX_UZ38eA&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=5)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Start with Azure Active Directory - Lab A01](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5B50MusyNR8&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=6)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Create a Teams app with Azure AD Single Sign-On - Lab A02](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=khpjsWwmB5U&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=7)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Teams styling and themes - Lab A03](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZfXapTSbECM&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=8)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Linking your identity system to Azure AD SSO - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=02qe0KZB3T0&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=9)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Create a Configurable Tab - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RjFtsd7KcuE&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=10)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Add a Deep link to a personal Tab - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i66U1-QSrOI&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=11)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Add a Messaging Extension - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HzK_YHAz05w&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=12)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Add a Dialog - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tqNO5qaYmL0&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=13)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - How to monetize your apps - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=foPEXYocOmU&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=14)

---

## New Microsoft 365 Developer Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 Developer blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [Hack Together: Microsoft Graph and .NET week 1 recap and what’s coming](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/hack-together-microsoft-graph-and-dotnet-week-1-recap/) by [Waldek Mastykarz](https://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) | @Waldekm


## New Microsoft 365 and Power Platform Community Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 and Power Platform Community Blog](https://pnp.github.io/blog/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [🐫(CAML) Query: What is it and why is it relevant in 2023?](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/caml-query-what-is-it/) by [Dan Toft](tanddant) (Evobis) | @tanddant
* [CLI for Microsoft 365 - how cool is that? - Context](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/cli-how-cool-is-that-context/) by [Adam Wójcik](https://twitter.com/Adam25858782) (Hitachi Energy) | @Adam2585878
* [Microsoft 365 PnP Weekly - Episode 200](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-365-pnp-weekly/episode-200/) with [Sébastien Levert](https://twitter.com/sebastienlevert) (Microsoft) | @Sebastienlevert

---

## Last week's community call recordings

Here are the last week's community call recordings. You can download recurrent invites to the community calls from https://aka.ms/m365/calls.

* [Viva Connections & SharePoint Framework Community Call – 9th of March, 2023](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-viva-and-spfx-community-call/2023-03-09/) with demos from [Luis Mañez](https://twitter.com/luismanez) (ClearPeople) | @luismanez and [Nico De Cleyre](https://twitter.com/NicoDeCleyre) (Ordina) | @NicoDeCleyre
* [Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Development Community call - 2nd of March, 2023](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-365-and-power-platform-development-community-call/2023-03-02/) with demos from [Waldek Mastykarz](https://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) | @waldekm, [Ayça Baş](https://twitter.com/aycabs) (Microsoft) | @aycabs and [Garry Trinder](https://twitter.com/garrytrinder) (Microsoft) | @garrytrinder

---

## Sharing is Caring sessions

If you are looking to learn how to use the Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community resources or contribute back to the community and not sure where to start, we are here for you! Please join the [Sharing Is Caring program](https://pnp.github.io/sharing-is-caring/).

* [Power Platform Samples Contributor - 15th of March, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUN0hMNTRPWVVWTkhFTk9QQzhFSTRIS1JLSC4u)
* [Maturity Model Practitioners - monthly meeting](https://aka.ms/mm4m365/invite)

---

## Recognition

You already contributed? Great, we want to celebrate and recognize you! Opt in for our [community recognition program](https://pnp.github.io/recognitionprogram/) and earn badges from our various initiatives! 

![together-221201.png](images/community-recognization-program.png)

---

## Upcoming events

Please take the opportunity to join these great conferences organized by the best community in tech across the world. There are online and in-person options. See more from [CommunityDays.org](https://www.communitydays.org/).

* [DynamicsCon Virtual](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-03-15/dynamicscon-virtual) - March 15-16, Virtual
* [Modern Workplace Conference Paris](https://modern-workplace.pro/) - March 27-29, 2023 - Paris, France
* [Dynamics Power Israel](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-03-30/dynamics-power-israel) - March 30, 2023 - Tel Aviv, Israel
* [Latinamerican Modern Workplace Conference](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-04-27/get-cslatam-conference-2023) - April 27-29, 2023 - Mexico City, Mexico
* [CollabDays Montreal](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-montreal/) - April 28, 2023 - Montreal, Canada
* [M365 Conference](https://m365conf.com/#!/) - May 1-5, 2023 - Las Vegas, Nevada, USA
* [CollabDays Poland 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-13/collabdays-poland-2023) - May 13, 2023 - Warsaw, Poland
* [M365 Community Day - Phoenix](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-13/m365-community-day-phoenix) - May 13-14, 2023 - Hybrid - Tempe, AZ, USA
* [Techorama Belgium](https://www.techorama.be/) - May 15 - 17, 2023 - Antwerp, Belgium
* [MN M365 User Group Spring 2023 In-Person Workshop Day Conference](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-19/mn-m365-10th-bi-annual-spring-workshop-day) - May 19, 2023 - Edina, MN, USA
* [Power Automate Bootcamp](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-19/power-automate-bootcamp-2023) - May 19-20, 2023 - London, United Kingdom
* [Power Apps Developer Bootcamp](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-20/power-apps-developer-bootcamp) - May 20, 2023 - Manchester, United Kingdom
* [CollabDays Italy](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-italy/) - May 20, 2023 - Milan, Italy
* [European Collaboration Summit](https://www.collabsummit.eu/) - May 22-24, 2023 - Duesseldorf, Germany
* [Expters Live](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-25/experts-live-netherlands) - May 25, 2023 - Hertogenbosch, Netherlands
* [DYNUG Spring Conference](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-31/dynug-spring-conference) - May 31, 2023 - Oslo, Norway
* [CollabDays Netherlands](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-10/collabdays-netherlands-2023) - June 10, 2023 - Utrecht, Netherlands
* [365 EduCon DC](https://365educon.com/DC/) - June 12-16, 2023 - Washington, D.C., USA
* [AMS Berlin 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-15/amsberlin-2023) - June 15, 2023 - Berlin, Germany
* [CollabDays Central Europe](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-ce/) - June 17, 2023 - Zurich, Switzerland
* [European Power Platform conference](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/european-power-platform-conference/), June 20-22, 2023 - Dublin, Ireland
* [365 EduCon Seattle](https://365educon.com/Seattle/) – August 21-25, 2023 - Seattle, WA, USA
* [Metaverse One 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-09-20/metaverse-one-2023) - September 20, 2023 - Virtual
* [South Coast Summit 2023](https://www.southcoastsummit.com/) - October 13-14, 2023 - Farnborough, United Kingdom
* [Microsoft Ignite 2023](https://ignite.microsoft.com/) - November 15-16, 2023
* [CollabDays Lisbon 2023](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-lisbon/) - November 25, 2023 - Lisbon, Portugal
* [European SharePoint, Office 365 & Azure Conference 2023](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/) - November 27-30 - Amsterdam, Netherlands
* [AMS Aachen](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-11-28/ams-aachen) - November 28, 2023 - Aachen, Germany
* [European Cloud Summit](https://www.cloudsummit.eu/) - December 4-6, 2023 - Wiesbaden, Germany

We hope to see you around!

_Sharing is caring 🧡_

Commit message:

dayligt saving notice for the weekly summary

content/weekly-agenda/23-03-13/index.md, after:

---
title: Weekly Agenda - 13th of March 2023 week
date: 2023-03-10T04:02:03.005Z
author: Vesa Juvonen
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories:
  - weekly agenda
images:
  - images/weeklyagenda11.png
tags: []
type: trending
draft: false
---

We want to give you a better overview on what's happening each week. This is a summary blog post of all the community activities such as community calls and presenters, newly uploaded videos, upcoming events and more 🚀

Get involved by joining a call! We host a variety of [community calls](https://aka.ms/community/calls) each week, where we demo solutions, announce new features and where you can connect with like-minded people. These calls are for everyone to join, simply download the recurrent invite and get involved.

{{< notice important>}}
As United States moves to daylight saving time starting from the Sunday 12th of March which is two weeks before Europe, some of the meeting times might be impacted for you for following two weeks. 

If you have downloaded the recurrent invite, meeting time should be properly adjusted in your calendar.
{{< /notice >}}

This is the agenda for the following week:

### Microsoft 365 & Power Platform weekly call - 14th of March

* Tuesday, 7th of March 2023, 8:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 & Power Platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-platform-call/)

Demos this time

* [Dan Wahlin](https://twitter.com/DanWahlin) (Microsoft) | @DanWahlin - Deploying the Azure Communications Services Application to Azure
* Gary Pretty (Microsoft) – Take advantage of latest Power Virtual Agents improvements
* [Waldek Mastykarz](https://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) | @Waldekm - Microsoft Graph Hackathon – Recap on the second week

### Power Platform monthly Community Call - 15th of March

* Wednesday, 15th of March, 8:00 AM PT / 4:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/powerplatformcommunitycall) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/PowerPlatformMonthlyCall) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Power Platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/power-apps-community-call/)

Demos: 

* From Epilepsy to MVP - Empowerment using the Power Platform - [Daniel Christian](https://twitter.com/dchristian19) | @dchristian19
* Igniting a Power Automate Revolution: What Happens When Salespeople like to Click Buttons? - [Gizzelle Akin](https://twitter.com/gizzelleakin) | @gizzelleakin
* Quality Assurance with Power Platform Pipelines using Power Apps - [Nati Turtledove](https://twitter.com/NatiTurts) | @NatiTurts


Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

**Interested on doing a demo here?** - [Let us know](https://aka.ms/community/request/demo) and we'll get you scheduled!

### Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community Call - 16th of March

Typically demos here are from the community by the community. You are welcome to demo here 👋

* Thursday, 16th of March, 2023, 7:00 AM PT / 2:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Development](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-and-power-platform-development-community-call/)

Demos: 

* [Matt Jimison](https://twitter.com/mjimison) (Takeda) | @mjimison - Harnessing the Power of Open AI inside Power Virtual Agents
* [Hugo Bernier](https://twitter.com/bernierh) (Microsoft) | @Bernierh - Editing Site Headers in Power Pages

Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

**Interested on doing a demo here?** - [Let us know](https://aka.ms/community/request/demo) and we'll get you scheduled!

### Microsoft identity platform community call - 17th of March

* Thursday, 17th of March, 2023, 9:00 AM PT / 4:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/IDDEVCommunityCall) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/IDDEVCommunityCall-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft identity platform community call](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-identity-platform-community-call/)

Topic:
* Staying Up to Date with Authentication for JavaScript Applications 

## New videos

Update of the newly published videos in our YouTube channel [Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_mKdhw-V6CeCM7gTo_Iy7w) - Subscribe today! ✅

* [Upcoming Preview Word APIs - March 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zn28EyMIScQ) by Yun Wang (Microsoft)
* [Power Platform Release Planner - your new superpower!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AS2eES2KPPc) by [Vivian Voss](https://twitter.com/VivianTiiman) (Avanade) | @VivianTiiman
* [What's next for the Microsoft Graph Toolkit!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lFobFO2G1-8) by [Sébastien Levert](https://twitter.com/sebastienlevert) (Microsoft) | @sebastienlevert & [Gavin Barron](https://twitter.com/gavinbarron) (Microsoft) | @gavinbarron
* [Setup and launch Viva Connections in under 5 minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wnZAB-lZHfw&t=37s) by [Anshuman Gaur](https://twitter.com/_AnshumanGaur) (Microsoft) | @_AnshumanGaur
* [Developing a personal wellness app to prevent burnout using Power Apps and SharePoint](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hvWJ5YVukMU&t=9s) by [Carlos Solís](https://twitter.com/CarlosBKSolis1) | @CarlosBKSolis1
* [Getting started on your SPFx form customizer journey with a boilerplate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LhlV5dhjLX0) by [Michaël Maillot](https://twitter.com/michael_maillot) (OnePoint) | @michael_maillot
* [Get your Apps ready for Zero Trust – February 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hwoEhMdSo7U&t=9s) by [Marcus Carvalho](https://twitter.com/marcusca10) (Microsoft) | @marcusca10
* [Create Playlists in Microsoft 365](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_Gl629X5tU&t=505s)


We also release new playlist focusing on the [Microsoft Teams app camp](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU) and development scenarios. Please see the following new videos for more details.

* [Microsoft Teams App Camp: Get started with Teams app development and monetization](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFwLfG95rVU&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=1)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Microsoft Teams Marketplace Strategy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcwcOFu8QBU&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=2) - Masako Kodama (Microsoft)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - 5 Steps to Monetize your Teams Application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J7XSf3x05SU&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=3) - James Skay (Microsoft)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Buying a Teams Application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nuOjlTnoj7s&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=4)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Anatomy of a SaaS Application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CrvX_UZ38eA&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=5)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Start with Azure Active Directory - Lab A01](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5B50MusyNR8&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=6)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Create a Teams app with Azure AD Single Sign-On - Lab A02](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=khpjsWwmB5U&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=7)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Teams styling and themes - Lab A03](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZfXapTSbECM&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=8)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Linking your identity system to Azure AD SSO - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=02qe0KZB3T0&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=9)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Create a Configurable Tab - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RjFtsd7KcuE&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=10)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Add a Deep link to a personal Tab - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i66U1-QSrOI&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=11)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Add a Messaging Extension - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HzK_YHAz05w&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=12)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - Add a Dialog - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tqNO5qaYmL0&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=13)
* [Microsoft Teams App Camp - How to monetize your apps - Lab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=foPEXYocOmU&list=PLR9nK3mnD-OW5yCjKO0K8b-Xi4Ci1iBlU&index=14)

---

## New Microsoft 365 Developer Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 Developer blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [Hack Together: Microsoft Graph and .NET week 1 recap and what’s coming](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/hack-together-microsoft-graph-and-dotnet-week-1-recap/) by [Waldek Mastykarz](https://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) | @Waldekm


## New Microsoft 365 and Power Platform Community Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 and Power Platform Community Blog](https://pnp.github.io/blog/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [🐫(CAML) Query: What is it and why is it relevant in 2023?](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/caml-query-what-is-it/) by [Dan Toft](tanddant) (Evobis) | @tanddant
* [CLI for Microsoft 365 - how cool is that? - Context](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/cli-how-cool-is-that-context/) by [Adam Wójcik](https://twitter.com/Adam25858782) (Hitachi Energy) | @Adam2585878
* [Microsoft 365 PnP Weekly - Episode 200](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-365-pnp-weekly/episode-200/) with [Sébastien Levert](https://twitter.com/sebastienlevert) (Microsoft) | @Sebastienlevert

---

## Last week's community call recordings

Here are the last week's community call recordings. You can download recurrent invites to the community calls from https://aka.ms/m365/calls.

* [Viva Connections & SharePoint Framework Community Call – 9th of March, 2023](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-viva-and-spfx-community-call/2023-03-09/) with demos from [Luis Mañez](https://twitter.com/luismanez) (ClearPeople) | @luismanez and [Nico De Cleyre](https://twitter.com/NicoDeCleyre) (Ordina) | @NicoDeCleyre
* [Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Development Community call - 2nd of March, 2023](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-365-and-power-platform-development-community-call/2023-03-02/) with demos from [Waldek Mastykarz](https://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) | @waldekm, [Ayça Baş](https://twitter.com/aycabs) (Microsoft) | @aycabs and [Garry Trinder](https://twitter.com/garrytrinder) (Microsoft) | @garrytrinder

---

## Sharing is Caring sessions

If you are looking to learn how to use the Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community resources or contribute back to the community and not sure where to start, we are here for you! Please join the [Sharing Is Caring program](https://pnp.github.io/sharing-is-caring/).

* [Power Platform Samples Contributor - 15th of March, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUN0hMNTRPWVVWTkhFTk9QQzhFSTRIS1JLSC4u)
* [Maturity Model Practitioners - monthly meeting](https://aka.ms/mm4m365/invite)

---

## Recognition

You already contributed? Great, we want to celebrate and recognize you! Opt in for our [community recognition program](https://pnp.github.io/recognitionprogram/) and earn badges from our various initiatives! 

![together-221201.png](images/community-recognization-program.png)

---

## Upcoming events

Please take the opportunity to join these great conferences organized by the best community in tech across the world. There are online and in-person options. See more from [CommunityDays.org](https://www.communitydays.org/).

* [DynamicsCon Virtual](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-03-15/dynamicscon-virtual) - March 15-16, Virtual
* [Modern Workplace Conference Paris](https://modern-workplace.pro/) - March 27-29, 2023 - Paris, France
* [Dynamics Power Israel](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-03-30/dynamics-power-israel) - March 30, 2023 - Tel Aviv, Israel
* [Latinamerican Modern Workplace Conference](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-04-27/get-cslatam-conference-2023) - April 27-29, 2023 - Mexico City, Mexico
* [CollabDays Montreal](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-montreal/) - April 28, 2023 - Montreal, Canada
* [M365 Conference](https://m365conf.com/#!/) - May 1-5, 2023 - Las Vegas, Nevada, USA
* [CollabDays Poland 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-13/collabdays-poland-2023) - May 13, 2023 - Warsaw, Poland
* [M365 Community Day - Phoenix](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-13/m365-community-day-phoenix) - May 13-14, 2023 - Hybrid - Tempe, AZ, USA
* [Techorama Belgium](https://www.techorama.be/) - May 15 - 17, 2023 - Antwerp, Belgium
* [MN M365 User Group Spring 2023 In-Person Workshop Day Conference](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-19/mn-m365-10th-bi-annual-spring-workshop-day) - May 19, 2023 - Edina, MN, USA
* [Power Automate Bootcamp](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-19/power-automate-bootcamp-2023) - May 19-20, 2023 - London, United Kingdom
* [Power Apps Developer Bootcamp](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-20/power-apps-developer-bootcamp) - May 20, 2023 - Manchester, United Kingdom
* [CollabDays Italy](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-italy/) - May 20, 2023 - Milan, Italy
* [European Collaboration Summit](https://www.collabsummit.eu/) - May 22-24, 2023 - Duesseldorf, Germany
* [Expters Live](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-25/experts-live-netherlands) - May 25, 2023 - Hertogenbosch, Netherlands
* [DYNUG Spring Conference](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-31/dynug-spring-conference) - May 31, 2023 - Oslo, Norway
* [CollabDays Netherlands](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-10/collabdays-netherlands-2023) - June 10, 2023 - Utrecht, Netherlands
* [365 EduCon DC](https://365educon.com/DC/) - June 12-16, 2023 - Washington, D.C., USA
* [AMS Berlin 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-15/amsberlin-2023) - June 15, 2023 - Berlin, Germany
* [CollabDays Central Europe](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-ce/) - June 17, 2023 - Zurich, Switzerland
* [European Power Platform conference](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/european-power-platform-conference/), June 20-22, 2023 - Dublin, Ireland
* [365 EduCon Seattle](https://365educon.com/Seattle/) – August 21-25, 2023 - Seattle, WA, USA
* [Metaverse One 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-09-20/metaverse-one-2023) - September 20, 2023 - Virtual
* [South Coast Summit 2023](https://www.southcoastsummit.com/) - October 13-14, 2023 - Farnborough, United Kingdom
* [Microsoft Ignite 2023](https://ignite.microsoft.com/) - November 15-16, 2023
* [CollabDays Lisbon 2023](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-lisbon/) - November 25, 2023 - Lisbon, Portugal
* [European SharePoint, Office 365 & Azure Conference 2023](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/) - November 27-30 - Amsterdam, Netherlands
* [AMS Aachen](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-11-28/ams-aachen) - November 28, 2023 - Aachen, Germany
* [European Cloud Summit](https://www.cloudsummit.eu/) - December 4-6, 2023 - Wiesbaden, Germany

We hope to see you around!

_Sharing is caring 🧡_
