content/weekly-agenda/22-12-26/index.md, before:

---
title: Weekly Agenda - 26th of December 2022 week
date: 2022-12-23T09:23:35.126Z
author: Vesa Juvonen
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories:
  - weekly agenda
images:
  - images/weeklyagenda52.png
tags: []
type: trending
draft: true
---

We want to give you a better overview on what's happening each week. This is a summary blog post of all the community activities such as community calls and presenters, newly uploaded videos, upcoming events and more 🚀

## Community Calls

Get involved by joining a call! We host a variety of [community calls](https://aka.ms/m365/calls) each week, where we demo solutions, announce new features and where you can connect with like-minded people. This is the agenda for the following week:

### Microsoft 365 platform call - 27th of December

* Tuesday, 20th of December 2022, 8:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-platform-call/)

No demos this time, but

* Coffee and tea with the community

Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

### Viva Connections & SharePoint Framework Community Call - 29th of December

* Thursday, 29th of December, 2022, 7:00 AM PT / 2:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Development](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-and-power-platform-development-community-call/)

Demos: 

* [Luis Mañez](https://twitter.com/luismanez) (ClearPeople) | @luismanez - Image generation solution with SPFx using Dall-e
* [Sergej Schwabauer](https://github.com/SPFxAppDev) (Aurum) | SPFxAppDev - Password Vault Web Part & quick links extension
* [Nico De Cleyre](https://twitter.com/NicoDeCleyre) (Ordina) |@NicoDeCleyre - My experience as a first-time contributor to CLI for Microsoft 365


Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

**Interested on doing a demo here?** - [Let us know](https://aka.ms/m365pnp/request/demo) and we'll get you scheduled!

---

## New videos

Update of the newly published videos in our two YouTube channels which are the [Microsoft 365 Community](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_mKdhw-V6CeCM7gTo_Iy7w) or [Microsoft 365 Developer](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV_6HOhwxYLXAGd-JOqKPoQ) channels.

### Microsoft 365 Community Channel

* [Introduction to CLI for Microsoft 365 and PnP PowerShell VS Code extensions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kTnlgESTas0) by [Adam Wójcik](http://twitter.com/Adam25858782) | @Adam25858782
* [Preview updates on Microsoft Graph Toolkit v3.0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-mrH_EnYtpw) by [Gavin Barron](https://twitter.com/gavinbarron) (Microsoft) | @gavinbarron and [Sébastien Levert](https://twitter.com/sebastienlevert) (Microsoft) | @Sebastienlevert
* [Migrating an ASP.NET core application to MSAL from ADAL – A developer journey – December 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3LZ6QVbiUug) by  Kyle Marsh (Microsoft), Pramod HK (Microsoft), Jitesh Nairh (Microsoft), and Bogdan Achim (Microsoft)
* [Using list formatting to improve SharePoint pages library experience for content creators](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Fa2DdIjTNc) by [Chris Kent](https://twitter.com/theChrisKent) (DMI) | @TheChrisKent
* [Visualizing dynamically SharePoint data within SPFx solutions using ERD model](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mQ8qreM7tZg) by [Niklas Wilhelm](https://twitter.com/NiklasWilhelm4) (NetForce 365) | @NiklasWilhelm4
* [Use Microsoft Lists to track contacts throughout the year](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VR6kZCXOSbI) by [Mark Kashman](https://twitter.com/MKashman) (Microsoft) | @MKashman
* [What’s new for Microsoft Search Usage reports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jA7reGGz6Z0) by [Bill Baer](https://twitter.com/williambaer) (Microsoft) | @williambaer
* [Creating SPFx powered multi-tab solution using Microsoft Teams Toolkit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r9cSy7K9gG4) by [Vesa Juvonen](https://twitter.com/vesajuvonen) (Microsoft) | @Vesajuvonen
* [Build your first Notification bot in C# for Microsoft Teams with Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n2HrdzpBg-8) by [Ayça Baş](https://twitter.com/aycabs) (Microsoft) | @Aycabs

---

## New Microsoft 365 Developer Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 Developer blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [Microsoft Graph PowerShell v2 is now in public preview, half the size, and will speed up your automations](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/microsoft-graph-powershell-v2-is-now-in-public-preview-half-the-size-and-will-speed-up-your-automations/)
* [Top 5 AppSource validation errors for Office Add-ins submissions](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/top-5-appsource-validation-errors-for-office-add-ins-submissions/)

## Last week's community call recordings

Here are the last week's community call recordings. You can download recurrent invites to the community calls from https://aka.ms/m365/calls.

* [Power Platform Community Call – December 2022](https://pnp.github.io/blog/power-platform-community-call/power-apps-community-call-december-2022/)
* [Microsoft 365 Platform Community Call - 20th of December, 2022](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-365-platform-community-call/2022-12-20/)
* [Microsoft Identity Platform community call – December 2022](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-identity-platform-community-call/microsoft-identity-platform-community-call-december-2022/)

---

## Sharing is Caring sessions

If you are looking to learn how to use the Microsoft 365 Platform Community resources or contribute back to the community and not sure where to start, we are here for you! Please join the [Sharing Is Caring program](https://pnp.github.io/sharing-is-caring/).

* [Power Platform Samples Contributor - 10th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUN0hMNTRPWVVWTkhFTk9QQzhFSTRIS1JLSC4u)
* [First-Time Contributor - 12th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUNjAwRVNETlA1MkxIR1MyTEs5STZFVVRJMC4u)
* [Writing for the Web - 23rd of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUMFNPNFMyUk9CNFROUjJWTFFGSzdJV0czVC4u)
* [PnP Sharing is Caring - SPFx Samples w/ NVM - 25th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUNEE2SUdTOU1UOEtCTFU3MlM1SERDMlNVNi4u)
* [Maturity Model Practitioners - monthly meeting](https://aka.ms/mm4m365/invite)

---

## Recognition

You already contributed? Great, we want to celebrate and recognize you! Opt in for our [community recognition program](https://pnp.github.io/recognitionprogram/) and earn badges from our various initiatives! 

---

## Upcoming events

Please take the opportunity to join these great conferences organized by the best community in tech across the world. There are online and in-person options.

* [M365 Saturday Ahmedabad](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-01-07/m365-saturday-ahmedabad) - January 7, 2023 - Ahmedabad, India
* [AMS Sophia-Antipolis](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-02-07/ams-sophia-antipolis) - February 7, 2023 - Biot, France
* [Modern Workplace Conference Paris](https://modern-workplace.pro/) - March 27 -29, 2023, Paris, France
* [M365 Conference](https://m365conf.com/#!/) - May 1-5, 2023
* [CollabDays Poland 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-13/collabdays-poland-2023) - May 13, 2023 - Warsaw, Poland
* [Techorama Belgium](https://www.techorama.be/) - May 15 - 17, 2023 - Antwerp, Belgium
* [CollabDays Italy](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-italy/) - May 20, 2023 - Milan, Italy
* [European Collaboration Summit](https://www.collabsummit.eu/) - May 22-24, 2023 - Duesseldorf, Germany
* [CollabDays Netherlands](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-10/collabdays-netherlands-2023) - June 10, 2023 - Utrecht, Netherlands
* [CollabDays Central Europe](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-ce/) - June 17, 2023 - Zurich, Switzerland
* [European Power Platform conference](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/european-power-platform-conference/), June 20-22, 2023 - Dublin, UK

We hope to see you around!

_Sharing is caring 🧡_

Commit message:

adds new article (#826)
* attempts to fix deployment by replacing epic by trending and one older trending post by regular type

* adds weekly agenda 48

* adds weekly agenda and new post

* adds one more contribution to weekly agenda

* adds weekly agenda and new blog post

* adds m365 dev blog post to agenda

* link fix

* link fix

* link fix

* link fix

* link fix

* more link fixes

* link fixes

* adds weekly agenda

* adds conf

* adds new article and references it in weekly agenda

content/weekly-agenda/22-12-26/index.md, after:

---
title: Weekly Agenda - 26th of December 2022 week
date: 2022-12-23T09:23:35.126Z
author: Vesa Juvonen
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories:
  - weekly agenda
images:
  - images/weeklyagenda52.png
tags: []
type: trending
draft: true
---

We want to give you a better overview on what's happening each week. This is a summary blog post of all the community activities such as community calls and presenters, newly uploaded videos, upcoming events and more 🚀

## Community Calls

Get involved by joining a call! We host a variety of [community calls](https://aka.ms/m365/calls) each week, where we demo solutions, announce new features and where you can connect with like-minded people. This is the agenda for the following week:

### Microsoft 365 platform call - 27th of December

* Tuesday, 20th of December 2022, 8:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-platform-call/)

No demos this time, but

* Coffee and tea with the community

Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

### Viva Connections & SharePoint Framework Community Call - 29th of December

* Thursday, 29th of December, 2022, 7:00 AM PT / 2:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Development](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-and-power-platform-development-community-call/)

Demos: 

* [Luis Mañez](https://twitter.com/luismanez) (ClearPeople) | @luismanez - Image generation solution with SPFx using Dall-e
* [Sergej Schwabauer](https://github.com/SPFxAppDev) (Aurum) | SPFxAppDev - Password Vault Web Part & quick links extension
* [Nico De Cleyre](https://twitter.com/NicoDeCleyre) (Ordina) |@NicoDeCleyre - My experience as a first-time contributor to CLI for Microsoft 365


Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

**Interested on doing a demo here?** - [Let us know](https://aka.ms/m365pnp/request/demo) and we'll get you scheduled!

---

## New videos

Update of the newly published videos in our two YouTube channels which are the [Microsoft 365 Community](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_mKdhw-V6CeCM7gTo_Iy7w) or [Microsoft 365 Developer](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV_6HOhwxYLXAGd-JOqKPoQ) channels.

### Microsoft 365 Community Channel

* [Introduction to CLI for Microsoft 365 and PnP PowerShell VS Code extensions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kTnlgESTas0) by [Adam Wójcik](http://twitter.com/Adam25858782) | @Adam25858782
* [Preview updates on Microsoft Graph Toolkit v3.0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-mrH_EnYtpw) by [Gavin Barron](https://twitter.com/gavinbarron) (Microsoft) | @gavinbarron and [Sébastien Levert](https://twitter.com/sebastienlevert) (Microsoft) | @Sebastienlevert
* [Migrating an ASP.NET core application to MSAL from ADAL – A developer journey – December 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3LZ6QVbiUug) by  Kyle Marsh (Microsoft), Pramod HK (Microsoft), Jitesh Nairh (Microsoft), and Bogdan Achim (Microsoft)
* [Using list formatting to improve SharePoint pages library experience for content creators](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Fa2DdIjTNc) by [Chris Kent](https://twitter.com/theChrisKent) (DMI) | @TheChrisKent
* [Visualizing dynamically SharePoint data within SPFx solutions using ERD model](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mQ8qreM7tZg) by [Niklas Wilhelm](https://twitter.com/NiklasWilhelm4) (NetForce 365) | @NiklasWilhelm4
* [Use Microsoft Lists to track contacts throughout the year](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VR6kZCXOSbI) by [Mark Kashman](https://twitter.com/MKashman) (Microsoft) | @MKashman
* [What’s new for Microsoft Search Usage reports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jA7reGGz6Z0) by [Bill Baer](https://twitter.com/williambaer) (Microsoft) | @williambaer
* [Creating SPFx powered multi-tab solution using Microsoft Teams Toolkit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r9cSy7K9gG4) by [Vesa Juvonen](https://twitter.com/vesajuvonen) (Microsoft) | @Vesajuvonen
* [Build your first Notification bot in C# for Microsoft Teams with Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n2HrdzpBg-8) by [Ayça Baş](https://twitter.com/aycabs) (Microsoft) | @Aycabs

---

## New Microsoft 365 Platform Community Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 Platform Community blog](https://pnp.github.io/blog/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [Material Design component library for Power Apps](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/Material-Design-component-library-for-Power-Apps) by [Luise Freese](https://twitter.com/LuiseFreese) | @LuiseFreese and [Robin Rosengrün](https://twitter.com/power_r2)(EnBW) | @power_r2

## New Microsoft 365 Developer Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 Developer blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [Microsoft Graph PowerShell v2 is now in public preview, half the size, and will speed up your automations](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/microsoft-graph-powershell-v2-is-now-in-public-preview-half-the-size-and-will-speed-up-your-automations/)
* [Top 5 AppSource validation errors for Office Add-ins submissions](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/top-5-appsource-validation-errors-for-office-add-ins-submissions/)

## Last week's community call recordings

Here are the last week's community call recordings. You can download recurrent invites to the community calls from https://aka.ms/m365/calls.

* [Power Platform Community Call – December 2022](https://pnp.github.io/blog/power-platform-community-call/power-apps-community-call-december-2022/)
* [Microsoft 365 Platform Community Call - 20th of December, 2022](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-365-platform-community-call/2022-12-20/)
* [Microsoft Identity Platform community call – December 2022](https://pnp.github.io/blog/microsoft-identity-platform-community-call/microsoft-identity-platform-community-call-december-2022/)

---

## Sharing is Caring sessions

If you are looking to learn how to use the Microsoft 365 Platform Community resources or contribute back to the community and not sure where to start, we are here for you! Please join the [Sharing Is Caring program](https://pnp.github.io/sharing-is-caring/).

* [Power Platform Samples Contributor - 10th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUN0hMNTRPWVVWTkhFTk9QQzhFSTRIS1JLSC4u)
* [First-Time Contributor - 12th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUNjAwRVNETlA1MkxIR1MyTEs5STZFVVRJMC4u)
* [Writing for the Web - 23rd of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUMFNPNFMyUk9CNFROUjJWTFFGSzdJV0czVC4u)
* [PnP Sharing is Caring - SPFx Samples w/ NVM - 25th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUNEE2SUdTOU1UOEtCTFU3MlM1SERDMlNVNi4u)
* [Maturity Model Practitioners - monthly meeting](https://aka.ms/mm4m365/invite)

---

## Recognition

You already contributed? Great, we want to celebrate and recognize you! Opt in for our [community recognition program](https://pnp.github.io/recognitionprogram/) and earn badges from our various initiatives! 

---

## Upcoming events

Please take the opportunity to join these great conferences organized by the best community in tech across the world. There are online and in-person options.

* [M365 Saturday Ahmedabad](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-01-07/m365-saturday-ahmedabad) - January 7, 2023 - Ahmedabad, India
* [AMS Sophia-Antipolis](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-02-07/ams-sophia-antipolis) - February 7, 2023 - Biot, France
* [Modern Workplace Conference Paris](https://modern-workplace.pro/) - March 27 -29, 2023, Paris, France
* [M365 Conference](https://m365conf.com/#!/) - May 1-5, 2023
* [CollabDays Poland 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-13/collabdays-poland-2023) - May 13, 2023 - Warsaw, Poland
* [Techorama Belgium](https://www.techorama.be/) - May 15 - 17, 2023 - Antwerp, Belgium
* [CollabDays Italy](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-italy/) - May 20, 2023 - Milan, Italy
* [European Collaboration Summit](https://www.collabsummit.eu/) - May 22-24, 2023 - Duesseldorf, Germany
* [CollabDays Netherlands](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-10/collabdays-netherlands-2023) - June 10, 2023 - Utrecht, Netherlands
* [CollabDays Central Europe](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-ce/) - June 17, 2023 - Zurich, Switzerland
* [European Power Platform conference](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/european-power-platform-conference/), June 20-22, 2023 - Dublin, UK

We hope to see you around!

_Sharing is caring 🧡_
