content/post/sharepoint-framework-v1-15-2-whats-in-latest-update-of-spfx/index.md, before:

---
title: Unboxing the SharePoint Framework (SPFx) v1.15.2 release

# Add a summary to convince readers to read your article (recommended). It will display on the homepage.
summary: "In this video, MVP Andrew Connell summarize what he found while picking apart this latest release of the SharePoint Framework (SPFx): v1.15.2."
date: 2022-09-14T17:27:14-04:00

# Author. Your own name
author: "Andrew Connell"

# GitHub username.
githubname: "andrewconnell"

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `thumbnail.jpg/png` to your page's images folder. Make sure to replace the placeholder image
images:
- images/thumbnail.png

# Tags and categories
# For example, use `tags = []` for no tags, or the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
# Community posts should always use "Community post" as the categories
tags: ["SharePoint Framework (SPFx)"]
categories: ["Community post"]
canonicalURL: https://www.voitanos.io/blog/sharepoint-framework-v1-15-2-whats-in-latest-update-of-spfx
---
In early August, Microsoft released a minor update to the SharePoint Framework (SPFx) with version v1.15.2. This was a relatively minor update that included things like:

- ✅  updated ESLint rule configurations
- ✅  automatically register Azure Service Principals when permission scope requests are approved
- ✅  ACE QuickView cards support deferred loading
- 🚀  ACE media selectors promoted to GA
- 🐞 squashed 16+ issues/bugs

In this post, [Andrew Connell](https://www.twitter.com/andrewconnell) goes over these updates and shares some additional things he found after spending some time picking apart this latest release of the SharePoint Framework!

You'll learn:

- What's new
  - Automatic Azure Service Principal registrations
  - ACE QuickView cards support deferred loading
- What’s changed
  - Updated ESLint rule configurations
  - ACE media selectors promoted to GA
- What’s fixed

{{< youtube N2YnIFsqMDc >}}

Commit message:

Content update/ac linkfix (#1679)
* update links to external site
* fix attribution links

content/post/sharepoint-framework-v1-15-2-whats-in-latest-update-of-spfx/index.md, after:

---
title: Unboxing the SharePoint Framework (SPFx) v1.15.2 release

# Add a summary to convince readers to read your article (recommended). It will display on the homepage.
summary: "In this video, MVP Andrew Connell summarize what he found while picking apart this latest release of the SharePoint Framework (SPFx): v1.15.2."
date: 2022-09-14T17:27:14-04:00

# Author. Your own name
author: "Andrew Connell"

# GitHub username.
githubname: "andrewconnell"

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `thumbnail.jpg/png` to your page's images folder. Make sure to replace the placeholder image
images:
- images/thumbnail.png

# Tags and categories
# For example, use `tags = []` for no tags, or the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
# Community posts should always use "Community post" as the categories
tags: ["SharePoint Framework (SPFx)"]
categories: ["Community post"]
canonicalURL: https://www.voitanos.io/blog/sharepoint-framework-v1-15-2-whats-in-latest-update-of-spfx
---
> This article originally appeared on Andrew Connell's site, **[Unboxing the SharePoint Framework (SPFx) v1.15.2 release](https://www.voitanos.io/blog/sharepoint-framework-v1-15-2-whats-in-latest-update-of-spfx/?utm_medium=website&utm_source=pnpblog&utm_campaign=blog&utm_content=Unboxing%20the%20SharePoint%20Framework%20(SPFx)%20v1.15.2%20release)**, where it's [also available as a video](https://youtu.be/N2YnIFsqMDc) and podcast episode.

In early August, Microsoft released a minor update to the SharePoint Framework (SPFx) with version v1.15.2. This was a relatively minor update that included things like:

- ✅  updated ESLint rule configurations
- ✅  automatically register Azure Service Principals when permission scope requests are approved
- ✅  ACE QuickView cards support deferred loading
- 🚀  ACE media selectors promoted to GA
- 🐞 squashed 16+ issues/bugs

In this post, [Andrew Connell](https://www.twitter.com/andrewconnell) goes over these updates and shares some additional things he found after spending some time picking apart this latest release of the SharePoint Framework!

You'll learn:

- What's new
  - Automatic Azure Service Principal registrations
  - ACE QuickView cards support deferred loading
- What’s changed
  - Updated ESLint rule configurations
  - ACE media selectors promoted to GA
- What’s fixed

{{< youtube N2YnIFsqMDc >}}
