content/weekly-agenda/22-12-19/index.md, before:

---
title: Weekly Agenda - 19th of December 2022 week
date: 2022-12-15T07:46:15.964Z
author: Vesa Juvonen
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories:
  - weekly agenda
images:
  - images/weeklyagenda51.png
tags: []
type: trending
draft: true
---


We want to give you a better overview on what's happening each week. This is a summary blog post of all the community activities such as community calls and presenters, newly uploaded videos, upcoming events and more 🚀


## Community Calls

Get involved by joining a call! We host a variety of [community calls](https://aka.ms/m365/calls) each week, where we demo solutions, announce new features and where you can connect with like-minded people. This is the agenda for the following week:

### Microsoft 365 platform call - 20th of December

* Tuesday, 20th of December 2022, 8:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-platform-call/)

No demos this time, but

* Coffee and tea with the community

Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

### Power Platform monthly Community Call - 21st of December

* Wednesday, 21st of December 2022, 8:00 AM PT / 4:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/powerplatformcommunitycall) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/PowerPlatformMonthlyCall) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Power Platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/power-apps-community-call/)

Demos: 

* [Nathalie Leenders](https://twitter.com/NathLeenders) (Chemours) | @NathLeenders - How to get output from a Teams Adaptive card with Power Automate
* [Dastan Banae](https://twitter.com/dastanbanae) | @dastanbanae - Making HR benefits enrollment more fun with Power Apps, Power Automate & SharePoint
* [Christian McIntosh](https://twitter.com/_CMcIntosh) | @_CMcIntosh -  Deep linking a Power App to replicate

Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

### Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community Call - 22th of December

* Thursday, 8th of December, 2022, 7:00 AM PT / 2:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Development](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-developer-community-call/)

Demos: 

* [Markus Moeller](https://twitter.com/Moeller2_0) (Avanade) | @Moeller2_0  - Extend Teams apps to Microsoft 365 (Outlook and Office)
* [Luise Freese](https://twitter.com/LuiseFreese) | @LuiseFreese and [Robin Rosengrün](https://twitter.com/power_r2) (EnBw) | @power_r2  - Power Apps component library: Material Design


Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

**Interested on doing a demo here?** - [Let us know](https://aka.ms/m365pnp/request/demo) and we'll get you scheduled!

---

## New videos

Update of the newly published videos in our two YouTube channels which are the [Microsoft 365 Community](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_mKdhw-V6CeCM7gTo_Iy7w) or [Microsoft 365 Developer](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV_6HOhwxYLXAGd-JOqKPoQ) channels.

### Microsoft 365 Community Channel

* [Using Fluent UI 9 in SPFx solutions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Abo8FdQZ4Dc) by [Nick Brown](https://twitter.com/techienickb) (Jisc) | @techienickb
* [PowerShell predictors - PnP PowerShell and CLI for Microsoft 365](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2nwreG58VTk) by [Anoop Tatti](https://twitter.com/anooptells) (Content+Cloud) | @Anooptells
* [Microsoft Graph Developer Proxy - Walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I0FDTKSKe9U)

---


## New Microsoft 365 Platform Community Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 Platform Community blog](https://pnp.github.io/blog/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [Extend Azure AD to add pronouns to a people card component in Power Apps](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/extend-azure-active-directory-to-add-pronouns-to-a-people-card-in-power-apps) by [Luise Freese](https://twitter.com/LuiseFreese) | @LuiseFreese

---

## Last week's community call recordings

Here are the last week's community call recordings. You can download recurrent invites to the community calls from https://aka.ms/m365/calls.

* [Microsoft 365 Platform Community Call – 13th of December, 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F5c4Y3PkiEc)

---


## Sharing is Caring sessions

If you are looking to learn how to use the Microsoft 365 Platform Community resources or contribute back to the community and not sure where to start, we are here for you! Please join the [Sharing Is Caring program](https://pnp.github.io/sharing-is-caring/).

* [Power Platform Samples Contributor - 10th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUN0hMNTRPWVVWTkhFTk9QQzhFSTRIS1JLSC4u)
* [First-Time Contributor - 12th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUNjAwRVNETlA1MkxIR1MyTEs5STZFVVRJMC4u)
* [Writing for the Web - 23rd of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUMFNPNFMyUk9CNFROUjJWTFFGSzdJV0czVC4u)
* [PnP Sharing is Caring - SPFx Samples w/ NVM - 25th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUNEE2SUdTOU1UOEtCTFU3MlM1SERDMlNVNi4u)
* [Maturity Model Practitioners - monthly meeting](https://aka.ms/mm4m365/invite)

---

## Recognition

You already contributed? Great, we want to celebrate and recognize you! Opt in for our [community recognition program](https://pnp.github.io/recognitionprogram/) and earn badges from our various initiatives! 

---

## Upcoming events

Please take the opportunity to join these great conferences organized by the best community in tech across the world. There are online and in-person options.

* [M365 Saturday Ahmedabad](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-01-07/m365-saturday-ahmedabad) - January 7, 2023 - Ahmedabad, India
* [AMS Sophia-Antipolis](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-02-07/ams-sophia-antipolis) - February 7, 2023 - Biot, France
* [M365 Conference](https://sharepointna.com/) - May 1-5, 2023
* [CollabDays Poland 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-13/collabdays-poland-2023) - May 13, 2023 - Warsaw, Poland
* [Techorama Belgium](https://www.techorama.be/) - May 15 - 17, 2023 - Antwerp, Belgium
* [CollabDays Italy](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-italy/) - May 20, 2023 - Milan, Italy
* [EUROPEAN COLLABORATION SUMMIT](https://www.collabsummit.eu/) - May 22-24, 2023 - Duesseldorf, Germany
* [CollabDays Netherlands](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-10/collabdays-netherlands-2023) - June 10, 2023 - Utrecht, Netherlands
* [CollabDays Central Europe](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-ce/) - June 17, 2023 - Zurich, Switzerland
* [European Power Platform conference](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/european-power-platform-conference/), June 20-22, 2023 - Dublin, UK

We hope to see you around!

_Sharing is caring 🧡_

Commit message:

adds m365 dev blog post to agenda

content/weekly-agenda/22-12-19/index.md, after:

---
title: Weekly Agenda - 19th of December 2022 week
date: 2022-12-15T07:46:15.964Z
author: Vesa Juvonen
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories:
  - weekly agenda
images:
  - images/weeklyagenda51.png
tags: []
type: trending
draft: true
---


We want to give you a better overview on what's happening each week. This is a summary blog post of all the community activities such as community calls and presenters, newly uploaded videos, upcoming events and more 🚀


## Community Calls

Get involved by joining a call! We host a variety of [community calls](https://aka.ms/m365/calls) each week, where we demo solutions, announce new features and where you can connect with like-minded people. This is the agenda for the following week:

### Microsoft 365 platform call - 20th of December

* Tuesday, 20th of December 2022, 8:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/m365-dev-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-platform-call/)

No demos this time, but

* Coffee and tea with the community

Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

### Power Platform monthly Community Call - 21st of December

* Wednesday, 21st of December 2022, 8:00 AM PT / 4:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/powerplatformcommunitycall) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/PowerPlatformMonthlyCall) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Power Platform calls](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/power-apps-community-call/)

Demos: 

* [Nathalie Leenders](https://twitter.com/NathLeenders) (Chemours) | @NathLeenders - How to get output from a Teams Adaptive card with Power Automate
* [Dastan Banae](https://twitter.com/dastanbanae) | @dastanbanae - Making HR benefits enrollment more fun with Power Apps, Power Automate & SharePoint
* [Christian McIntosh](https://twitter.com/_CMcIntosh) | @_CMcIntosh -  Deep linking a Power App to replicate

Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

### Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community Call - 22th of December

* Thursday, 8th of December, 2022, 7:00 AM PT / 2:00 PM GMT
* Download the [recurring invite](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call) or [join the call](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call-join) we'd love to see you in the call!
* If you can't make it this time, you can read the summary blog post including call recording here: [Microsoft 365 Community blog - Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Development](https://pnp.github.io/blog/categories/microsoft-365-developer-community-call/)

Demos: 

* [Markus Moeller](https://twitter.com/Moeller2_0) (Avanade) | @Moeller2_0  - Extend Teams apps to Microsoft 365 (Outlook and Office)
* [Luise Freese](https://twitter.com/LuiseFreese) | @LuiseFreese and [Robin Rosengrün](https://twitter.com/power_r2) (EnBw) | @power_r2  - Power Apps component library: Material Design


Also: 📷 Picture Time with community in Together Mode!

**Interested on doing a demo here?** - [Let us know](https://aka.ms/m365pnp/request/demo) and we'll get you scheduled!

---

## New videos

Update of the newly published videos in our two YouTube channels which are the [Microsoft 365 Community](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_mKdhw-V6CeCM7gTo_Iy7w) or [Microsoft 365 Developer](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV_6HOhwxYLXAGd-JOqKPoQ) channels.

### Microsoft 365 Community Channel

* [Using Fluent UI 9 in SPFx solutions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Abo8FdQZ4Dc) by [Nick Brown](https://twitter.com/techienickb) (Jisc) | @techienickb
* [PowerShell predictors - PnP PowerShell and CLI for Microsoft 365](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2nwreG58VTk) by [Anoop Tatti](https://twitter.com/anooptells) (Content+Cloud) | @Anooptells
* [Microsoft Graph Developer Proxy - Walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I0FDTKSKe9U)

---

## New Microsoft 365 Platform Community Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 Platform Community blog](https://pnp.github.io/blog/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [Extend Azure AD to add pronouns to a people card component in Power Apps](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/extend-azure-active-directory-to-add-pronouns-to-a-people-card-in-power-apps) by [Luise Freese](https://twitter.com/LuiseFreese) | @LuiseFreese

## New Microsoft 365 Developer Blog posts

All the latest updates on the Microsoft 365 platform are shared from the [Microsoft 365 Developer blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/). Here are the updates from last week.

* [Build bots to automate repetitive workflows using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/build-bots-to-automate-repetitive-workflows-using-teams-toolkit-for-visual-studio-code/) by [Garry Trinder](https://twitter.com/garrytrinder) (Microsoft) | @Garrytrinder


## Last week's community call recordings

Here are the last week's community call recordings. You can download recurrent invites to the community calls from https://aka.ms/m365/calls.

* [Microsoft 365 Platform Community Call – 13th of December, 2022](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F5c4Y3PkiEc)

---


## Sharing is Caring sessions

If you are looking to learn how to use the Microsoft 365 Platform Community resources or contribute back to the community and not sure where to start, we are here for you! Please join the [Sharing Is Caring program](https://pnp.github.io/sharing-is-caring/).

* [Power Platform Samples Contributor - 10th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUN0hMNTRPWVVWTkhFTk9QQzhFSTRIS1JLSC4u)
* [First-Time Contributor - 12th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUNjAwRVNETlA1MkxIR1MyTEs5STZFVVRJMC4u)
* [Writing for the Web - 23rd of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUMFNPNFMyUk9CNFROUjJWTFFGSzdJV0czVC4u)
* [PnP Sharing is Caring - SPFx Samples w/ NVM - 25th of January, 2023](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=KtIy2vgLW0SOgZbwvQuRaXDXyCl9DkBHq4A2OG7uLpdUNEE2SUdTOU1UOEtCTFU3MlM1SERDMlNVNi4u)
* [Maturity Model Practitioners - monthly meeting](https://aka.ms/mm4m365/invite)

---

## Recognition

You already contributed? Great, we want to celebrate and recognize you! Opt in for our [community recognition program](https://pnp.github.io/recognitionprogram/) and earn badges from our various initiatives! 

---

## Upcoming events

Please take the opportunity to join these great conferences organized by the best community in tech across the world. There are online and in-person options.

* [M365 Saturday Ahmedabad](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-01-07/m365-saturday-ahmedabad) - January 7, 2023 - Ahmedabad, India
* [AMS Sophia-Antipolis](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-02-07/ams-sophia-antipolis) - February 7, 2023 - Biot, France
* [M365 Conference](https://sharepointna.com/) - May 1-5, 2023
* [CollabDays Poland 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-05-13/collabdays-poland-2023) - May 13, 2023 - Warsaw, Poland
* [Techorama Belgium](https://www.techorama.be/) - May 15 - 17, 2023 - Antwerp, Belgium
* [CollabDays Italy](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-italy/) - May 20, 2023 - Milan, Italy
* [EUROPEAN COLLABORATION SUMMIT](https://www.collabsummit.eu/) - May 22-24, 2023 - Duesseldorf, Germany
* [CollabDays Netherlands](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-10/collabdays-netherlands-2023) - June 10, 2023 - Utrecht, Netherlands
* [CollabDays Central Europe](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-ce/) - June 17, 2023 - Zurich, Switzerland
* [European Power Platform conference](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/european-power-platform-conference/), June 20-22, 2023 - Dublin, UK

We hope to see you around!

_Sharing is caring 🧡_
