content/post/how-to-display-approvers-when-using-approvals-in-lists/index.md, before:

---
title: "Microsoft Lists: How to display approvers on the view when using Approvals in Lists"
date: 2024-05-30T00:00:00-00:00
author: "Tetsuya Kawahara"
githubname: tecchan1107
categories: ["Community post"]
images:
  - images/header.png
tags: []
type: "regular"
---

## Introduction

[The approval feature in Microsoft Lists](https://support.microsoft.com/office/approvals-in-lists-2bd0954d-5797-4be3-b78a-846f26338e17), which was previously only available for specific list templates, can now be enabled for any list. (Note: As of May 30, 2024, this feature may not yet be available for your tenant.)

![Screenshot of Approvals in Lists](./images/approvals-in-lists.png)

When this feature is enabled, an `Approval status` column is displayed in the view, allowing you to see the current approval status. However, the view does not show who the approvers are or who has approved an item. Therefore, it can be difficult to easily identify the approvers for each item.

![Screenshot of list with no approvers displayed](./images/list-without-approvers.png)

This post will guide you on how to display approvers in the view.

## How to Display Approvers in the View

When the approval feature is enabled, columns such as `Approver Creator`, `Approvers`, and `Responses` are automatically created in addition to the `Approval status` column. However, these columns are not usually displayed in the view. By displaying these columns in the view, you can easily identify the approvers.

![Screenshot of edit view columns panel](./images/edit-view-columns-panel.png)

![Screenshot of the list with approvers displayed](./images/list-with-approvers.png)

By displaying these columns, you can also set filters to show only items for which you are the approver.

![Screenshot of filtered list](./images/filter-list.png)

### Explanation of Each Column

|Column Name|Internal Name of Column|Column Type|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|Approver Creator|_ApprovalSentBy|Person or Group|Displays the user who requested the approval.|
|Approvers|_ApprovalAssignedTo|Person or Group (multiple selections possible)|Displays the users set as approvers.|
|Responses|_ApprovalRespondedBy|Person or Group (multiple selections possible)|Displays the users who approved or rejected.|

### Behavior for Each Process

#### Behavior When Requesting Approval

When requesting approval, the user who requested the approval is set in the `Approver Creator` column, and the approvers are set in the `Approvers` column.

![Video of the behavior when an approval request is made](./images/behavior-request-approve.gif)

#### Behavior When Approving/Rejecting

When approving or rejecting, the users who approved or rejected are added to the `Responses` column.

![Video of the behavior when approving/rejecting](./images/behavior-approve-reject.gif)

#### Behavior When Canceling Approval Requests

When canceling, the `Approver Creator`, `Approvers`, and `Responses` columns are cleared.

![Video of the behavior when the approval is canceled](./images/behavior-cancel.gif)

## Advanced

The `Approvers`, `Responses`, and `Approver Creator` columns usually only display the user's name. If you want to display the user's icon and change your own color to stand out, try to set the JSON below in the column formatting. This JSON is based on [person-assign-to-me](https://github.com/pnp/List-Formatting/tree/master/column-samples/person-assign-to-me) in [List Formatting Samples](https://github.com/pnp/List-Formatting).

![Screenshot of comparison before and after formatting](./images/formatting.png)

![Screenshot of how to format](./images/how-to-format.png)

``` json
{
  "$schema": "https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/sp/v2/column-formatting.schema.json",
  "elmType": "div",
  "children": [
    {
      "elmType": "div",
      "style": {
        "display": "flex",
        "flex-direction": "column",
        "margin-top": "2px",
        "margin-bottom": "2px"
      },
      "children": [
        {
          "elmType": "div",
          "children": [
            {
              "elmType": "div",
              "style": {
                "display": "flex",
                "flex-wrap": "wrap"
              },
              "children": [
                {
                  "elmType": "div",
                  "forEach": "_person in @currentField",
                  "style": {
                    "display": "=if(@currentField,'flex','none')",
                    "flex-direction": "row",
                    "align-items": "center",
                    "white-space": "nowrap",
                    "border-radius": "14px",
                    "margin": "4px"
                  },
                  "attributes": {
                    "class": "=if([$_person.email]==@me,'ms-bgColor-themeLighter ms-fontColor-themeDarker','ms-bgColor-neutralLight ms-fontColor-neutralPrimary')"
                  },
                  "defaultHoverField": "[$_person]",
                  "children": [
                    {
                      "elmType": "img",
                      "style": {
                        "width": "28px",
                        "height": "28px",
                        "border-radius": "50%"
                      },
                      "attributes": {
                        "src": "=getUserImage([$_person.email],'small')"
                      }
                    },
                    {
                      "elmType": "div",
                      "txtContent": "[$_person.title]",
                      "style": {
                        "padding-left": "6px",
                        "padding-right": "10px"
                      },
                      "attributes": {
                        "class": "ms-fontSize-s"
                      }
                    }
                  ]
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Additional Notes

- The [approval-status-icon-color](https://github.com/pnp/List-Formatting/tree/master/column-samples/approval-status-icon-color) sample in [List Formatting Samples](https://github.com/pnp/List-Formatting) demonstrates how to change icons and colors based on the value in the `Approval status` column. If you want to format the approval status column according to its value, please refer to this sample.
- I confirmed that the `Responses` column is also updated when approvals are done via the Microsoft Teams Approval app. However, updates to the `Approval status` and `Responses` columns were not reflected until the Approval request details dialog was opened once on the list. It is unclear whether this is a bug, but I have submitted [feedback on this phenomenon](https://feedbackportal.microsoft.com/feedback/idea/7adb8e4a-b21d-ef11-989a-6045bd796e5a) to the [Microsoft feedback portal](https://feedbackportal.microsoft.com/feedback/).

Commit message:

Added information about edit in grid view and procedures for setting up view

content/post/how-to-display-approvers-when-using-approvals-in-lists/index.md, after:

---
title: "Microsoft Lists: How to display approvers on the view when using Approvals in Lists"
date: 2024-05-30T00:00:00-00:00
author: "Tetsuya Kawahara"
githubname: tecchan1107
categories: ["Community post"]
images:
  - images/header.png
tags: []
type: "regular"
---

## Introduction

[The approval feature in Microsoft Lists](https://support.microsoft.com/office/approvals-in-lists-2bd0954d-5797-4be3-b78a-846f26338e17), which was previously only available for specific list templates, can now be enabled for any list. (Note: As of May 30, 2024, this feature may not yet be available for your tenant.)

![Screenshot of Approvals in Lists](./images/approvals-in-lists.png)

When this feature is enabled, an `Approval status` column is displayed in the view, allowing you to see the current approval status. However, the view does not show who the approvers are or who has approved an item. Therefore, it can be difficult to easily identify the approvers for each item.

![Screenshot of list with no approvers displayed](./images/list-without-approvers.png)

This post will guide you on how to display approvers in the view.

## How to Display Approvers in the View

When the approval feature is enabled, columns such as `Approver Creator`, `Approvers`, and `Responses` are automatically created in addition to the `Approval status` column. However, these columns are not usually displayed in the view. By displaying these columns in the view, you can easily identify the approvers.

To display these columns in the view:
1. Select the name of the view shown in the upper right corner >  Select **Add or remove fields**
1. Check the columns `Approver Creator`, `Approvers`, and `Responses`
1. Select **Apply**

![Screenshot of edit view columns panel](./images/edit-view-columns-panel.png)

![Screenshot of the list with approvers displayed](./images/list-with-approvers.png)

By displaying these columns, you can also set filters to show only items for which you are the approver.

![Screenshot of filtered list](./images/filter-list.png)

### Explanation of Each Column

|Column Name|Internal Name of Column|Column Type|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|Approver Creator|_ApprovalSentBy|Person or Group|Displays the user who requested the approval.|
|Approvers|_ApprovalAssignedTo|Person or Group (multiple selections possible)|Displays the users set as approvers.|
|Responses|_ApprovalRespondedBy|Person or Group (multiple selections possible)|Displays the users who approved or rejected.|

### Behavior for Each Process

#### Behavior When Requesting Approval

When requesting approval, the user who requested the approval is set in the `Approver Creator` column, and the approvers are set in the `Approvers` column.

![Video of the behavior when an approval request is made](./images/behavior-request-approve.gif)

#### Behavior When Approving/Rejecting

When approving or rejecting, the users who approved or rejected are added to the `Responses` column.

![Video of the behavior when approving/rejecting](./images/behavior-approve-reject.gif)

#### Behavior When Canceling Approval Requests

When canceling, the `Approver Creator`, `Approvers`, and `Responses` columns are cleared.

![Video of the behavior when the approval is canceled](./images/behavior-cancel.gif)

## Edit in Grid View

When in edit in grid view, the `Approver Creator`, `Approvers`, `Responses`, and `Approval status` columns are read-only, and these columns cannot be edited.

![Screenshot of the grid view](./images/grid-view.png)

## Advanced

The `Approvers`, `Responses`, and `Approver Creator` columns usually only display the user's name. If you want to display the user's icon and change your own color to stand out, try to set the JSON below in the column formatting. This JSON is based on [person-assign-to-me](https://github.com/pnp/List-Formatting/tree/master/column-samples/person-assign-to-me) in [List Formatting Samples](https://github.com/pnp/List-Formatting).

![Screenshot of comparison before and after formatting](./images/formatting.png)

![Screenshot of how to format](./images/how-to-format.png)

``` json
{
  "$schema": "https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/sp/v2/column-formatting.schema.json",
  "elmType": "div",
  "children": [
    {
      "elmType": "div",
      "style": {
        "display": "flex",
        "flex-direction": "column",
        "margin-top": "2px",
        "margin-bottom": "2px"
      },
      "children": [
        {
          "elmType": "div",
          "children": [
            {
              "elmType": "div",
              "style": {
                "display": "flex",
                "flex-wrap": "wrap"
              },
              "children": [
                {
                  "elmType": "div",
                  "forEach": "_person in @currentField",
                  "style": {
                    "display": "=if(@currentField,'flex','none')",
                    "flex-direction": "row",
                    "align-items": "center",
                    "white-space": "nowrap",
                    "border-radius": "14px",
                    "margin": "4px"
                  },
                  "attributes": {
                    "class": "=if([$_person.email]==@me,'ms-bgColor-themeLighter ms-fontColor-themeDarker','ms-bgColor-neutralLight ms-fontColor-neutralPrimary')"
                  },
                  "defaultHoverField": "[$_person]",
                  "children": [
                    {
                      "elmType": "img",
                      "style": {
                        "width": "28px",
                        "height": "28px",
                        "border-radius": "50%"
                      },
                      "attributes": {
                        "src": "=getUserImage([$_person.email],'small')"
                      }
                    },
                    {
                      "elmType": "div",
                      "txtContent": "[$_person.title]",
                      "style": {
                        "padding-left": "6px",
                        "padding-right": "10px"
                      },
                      "attributes": {
                        "class": "ms-fontSize-s"
                      }
                    }
                  ]
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Additional Notes

- The [approval-status-icon-color](https://github.com/pnp/List-Formatting/tree/master/column-samples/approval-status-icon-color) sample in [List Formatting Samples](https://github.com/pnp/List-Formatting) demonstrates how to change icons and colors based on the value in the `Approval status` column. If you want to format the approval status column according to its value, please refer to this sample.
- I confirmed that the `Responses` column is also updated when approvals are done via the Microsoft Teams Approval app. However, updates to the `Approval status` and `Responses` columns were not reflected until the Approval request details dialog was opened once on the list. It is unclear whether this is a bug, but I have submitted [feedback on this phenomenon](https://feedbackportal.microsoft.com/feedback/idea/7adb8e4a-b21d-ef11-989a-6045bd796e5a) to the [Microsoft feedback portal](https://feedbackportal.microsoft.com/feedback/).
