content/microsoft-365-pnp-weekly/episode-215/index.md, before:

---
title: "Microsoft 365 PnP Weekly - Episode 215"
summary: "London-based Europe Workplace Value Realization Lead - Zoe Wilson (Avanade) joins Microsoft’s Vesa Juvonen and Waldek Mastykarz in a discussion on Viva Explorer community, Viva modules, event speaker training, preparing for Copilot and generative AI, plus 22 articles/videos."
date: 2023-06-19T02:00:01-00:00
author: "Vesa Juvonen"
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories: ["PnP Weekly"]
images:
- images/pnp-weekly-215-promo.png
tags: []
videos:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0hdyHBL6Vs
draft: false
---
 
In this installment of the weekly discussion revolving around the latest news and topics on Microsoft 365, host – [Vesa Juvonen](http://twitter.com/vesajuvonen) (Microsoft) | @vesajuvonen and [Waldek Mastykarz](http://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) | @waldekm are joined by London-based Europe Workplace Value Realization Lead and Microsoft MVP - [Zoe Wilson](https://twitter.com/SharePoint_Zoe) (Avanade) \| @SharePoint_Zoe

## Topics discussed in this session

* How Zoe’s role differs from a delivery consultant’s role.
* Talk of value realization and business process optimization.
* Tips for staying up to date on products.
* How do you/Avanade come up with an offering for customers?
* IT vs Business Decision making.
* Favorite productivity hack you can do on Microsoft 365?
* Community work and specifically about the Viva Explorer program.
* What is special about Viva and what Viva modules would you recommend to a customer?
* What is the one thing we should fix at Microsoft?
* Tips for people to get started on presenting at events. Mentorships and sponsorships.
* Tips to women considering/building a career in IT?
* How should customers prepare for Copilot and generative AI?
 
## Referenced during conversation

* Viva Explorers - <https://www.vivaexplorers.com/>
* Video - [Momentum building example!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GA8z7f7a2Pk)

There were 22 articles or videos covered within this episode produced by Microsoft and community members.  

## This week

* **Zoe** – leading Workplace Value Realization + Copilot and Generative AI perspectives for Avanade = spending much time advocating with clients and educating colleagues on preparing for these topics.
* **Waldek** – reviewing a bunch of cool apps submitted during HackTogether: The Microsoft Teams Global Hack that ended June 15th.
* **Vesa** – back from vacation, catching up on things and reviewing Hacks, national holiday – Midsummer on Friday.

## Agenda items

[00:00](https://youtu.be/r0hdyHBL6Vs?t=0) – Intro

[01:58](https://youtu.be/r0hdyHBL6Vs?t=118) – Interview

[47:54](https://youtu.be/r0hdyHBL6Vs?t=2874) – Articles

[1:19:27](https://youtu.be/r0hdyHBL6Vs?t=4227) – Closing

## Action requested

Please remember to keep on providing us feedback on how we can help on this journey. We always welcome feedback on making the community more inclusive and diverse.

This session was recorded on Monday 19th of June and released on 20th of June, 2023.

*   Video at [Microsoft 365 Community YouTube channel.](https://aka.ms/m365pnp-videos)
    {{< youtube r0hdyHBL6Vs >}}
*   Podcast at [https://pnpweekly.podbean.com.](https://pnpweekly.podbean.com/) 
    {{< podbean pb-x9kti-14397ae >}}

These videos and podcasts are published each week and are intended to be roughly 45 - 60 minutes in length.  Please do give us feedback on this video and podcast series and also do let us know if you have done something cool/useful so that we can cover that in the next weekly summary! The easiest way to let us know is to share your work on Twitter and add the hashtag [#PnPWeekly](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23pnpweekly). We are always on the lookout for refreshingly new content. “_Sharing is caring!”_ 

## Microsoft articles

* [Now in public preview: Collaborative notes in Microsoft Teams Meetings](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-teams-blog/now-in-public-preview-collaborative-notes-in-microsoft-teams/ba-p/3848533) - Alexis Johnston (Microsoft)
* [How ISVs are driving customer retention by enabling unique experiences in Microsoft Teams](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-teams-blog/how-isvs-are-driving-customer-retention-by-enabling-unique/ba-p/3842419) - Evan Westenberger (Microsoft)
* [What’s New for Microsoft Teams Rooms and Teams Meetings at InfoComm 2023](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-teams-blog/what-s-new-for-microsoft-teams-rooms-and-teams-meetings-at/ba-p/3843949) - Matt Taylor (Microsoft)
* [Microsoft Viva Pulse available for public preview](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-viva-blog/microsoft-viva-pulse-available-for-public-preview/ba-p/3838338) - Tranissa Creme (Microsoft)
* [“The SharePoint experience” 🎙 – The Intrazone podcast](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-sharepoint-blog/the-sharepoint-experience-the-intrazone-podcast/ba-p/3848507) - [Mark Kashman](https://twitter.com/mkashman) (Microsoft) | @mkashman
* [Deploying Microsoft Viva Connections internally at Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/insidetrack/blog/deploying-microsoft-viva-connections-internally-at-microsoft/) - Keith Boyd (Microsoft)
* [24 New Verified, 29 New Independent Publisher and 37 Updated Connectors available](https://powerautomate.microsoft.com/blog/24-new-verified-29-new-independent-publisher-and-37-updated-connectors-available/) - Amjed Ayoub (Microsoft)
* [Run Your Enterprise on Power Platform with New Enterprise Application Templates](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/blog/run-your-enterprise-on-power-platform-with-new-enterprise-application-templates/) - [Ryan Cunningham](https://twitter.com/rc_says) (Microsoft) | @rc_says
* [Announcing General Availability for Power Platform Customer-managed key (CMK)](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/blog/announcing-general-availability-for-power-platform-customer-managed-key-cmk/) - Paul Liew (Microsoft)
* [Fluid Framework 2.0 Alpha is now available](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/fluid-framework-2-0-alpha-is-now-available/) - Kashif Qureshi (Microsoft) & Nick Simons (Microsoft)
* [What’s new for Office Add-ins: Announcements from Build 2023](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/whats-new-for-office-add-ins-announcements-from-build-2023/) - Microsoft
* [Announcing Microsoft Graph Toolkit v3.0 release candidate](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/announcing-microsoft-graph-toolkit-v3-0-release-candidate/) - [Sébastien Levert](https://twitter.com/sebastienlevert) (Microsoft) | @sebastienlevert

## Videos

* [Get A First Look At Power Automate Copilot!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uKNL1y_9R9o) - [April Dunnam](https://twitter.com/aprildunnam) (Microsoft) | @aprildunnam
* [Say Goodbye to Emails: Simplify TPS Reports with Teams Adaptive Cards](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_O08-bbBVy4) - [Shane Young](https://twitter.com/ShanesCows) (PowerApps911) | @ShanesCows
* [🤖 How to use AI in Power Apps aka Copilot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvQhMScIxuk) - [Giuliano De Luca](https://twitter.com/DeLucaGiulian) | @delucagiulian
* [Episode #251 - Microsoft Teams Toolkit v5.0 from Zero to Hero: Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nP95bYEO4mE) - [Paolo Pialorsi](https://twitter.com/PaoloPia) (PiaSys) | @PaoloPia

## Community articles

* [Use Viva Connections Toolkit for VS Code to boost your productivity with SharePoint Framework projects](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/viva-connections-toolkit-vscode-general-intro/) - [Adam Wójcik](https://twitter.com/Adam25858782) (Hitachi Energy) | @Adam25858782
* [CLI for Microsoft 365 and PnP Powershell VS Code extensions](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/cli-for-microsoft365-and-pnp-powershell-vs-code-extensions/) - [Adam Wójcik](https://twitter.com/Adam25858782) (Hitachi Energy) | @Adam25858782
* [TGIWE 02 – Another Friday – finally, a new article](https://n8d.at/tgiwe02-another-friday-finally-a-new-article) - [Stefan Bauer](https://twitter.com/StfBauer) (N8D) | @StfBauer
* [Configuring the CLI for Microsoft 365 in Azure Functions](https://www.blimped.nl/configuring-the-cli-for-microsoft-365-in-azure-functions) - [Martin Lingstuyl](https://twitter.com/martinlingstuyl) (I4-YOU Business Solutions) | @martinlingstuyl
* [Microsoft Search Roadmap Updates – June 2023](https://searchexplained.com/microsoft-search-roadmap-updates-202306/) - Oleg Petryk (Search Explained)
* [Performance of the Graph API, REST API and Web Services with SharePoint and Power Automate](https://sharepains.com/2023/06/13/performance-of-the-graph-api/) - [Pieter Veenstra](https://twitter.com/PieterVeenstra) (HybrIT Services) | @PieterVeenstra

## Upcoming events

Here are the upcoming events from the centralized [Community Days site](https://communitydays.org/events?when=upcoming) where you can find in-person, hybrid and online events for Microsoft 365 and more.

* [European Power Platform conference](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/european-power-platform-conference/), June 20-22, 2023 - Dublin, Ireland
* [Commsverse 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-21/commsverse-2023) - June 21-22, 2023 - Surrey, United Kingdom
* [Dynamics 365 Bootcamp CX Summit](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-23/dynamics-365-bootcamp-cx-summit) - June 23-24, 2023 - Brussels, Belgium
* [CollabDays Zagreb](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-07-01/collabdays-zagreb) - July 1, 2023 - Zagreb, Croatio
* [365 EduCon Seattle](https://365educon.com/Seattle/) – August 21-25, 2023 - Seattle, WA, USA
* [Metaverse One 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-09-20/metaverse-one-2023) - September 20, 2023 - Virtual
* [South Coast Summit 2023](https://www.southcoastsummit.com/) - October 13-14, 2023 - Farnborough, United Kingdom
* [Microsoft Ignite 2023](https://ignite.microsoft.com/) - November 15-16, 2023
* [CollabDays Lisbon 2023](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-lisbon/) - November 25, 2023 - Lisbon, Portugal
* [European SharePoint, Office 365 & Azure Conference 2023](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/) - November 27-30 - Amsterdam, Netherlands
* [AMS Aachen](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-11-28/ams-aachen) - November 28, 2023 - Aachen, Germany
* [European Cloud Summit](https://www.cloudsummit.eu/) - December 4-6, 2023 - Wiesbaden, Germany

## Additional resources

* [PnP Sharing is Caring initiative](https://aka.ms/sharing-is-caring) - Getting started guidance and training for using GitHub and contributing to the community
* Check out all the great community calls, SDKs, and tooling for Microsoft 365 and Power Platform from <https://aka.ms/m365/community>

If you’d like to hear from a specific community member in an upcoming recording and/or have specific questions for Microsoft 365 engineering or visitors – please let us know. We will do our best to address your requests or questions.

_"Sharing is caring!"_ 🧡

Commit message:

update-pnp-weekly-with-note-for-summer-break (#1401)

content/microsoft-365-pnp-weekly/episode-215/index.md, after:

---
title: "Microsoft 365 PnP Weekly - Episode 215"
summary: "London-based Europe Workplace Value Realization Lead - Zoe Wilson (Avanade) joins Microsoft’s Vesa Juvonen and Waldek Mastykarz in a discussion on Viva Explorer community, Viva modules, event speaker training, preparing for Copilot and generative AI, plus 22 articles/videos."
date: 2023-06-19T02:00:01-00:00
author: "Vesa Juvonen"
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories: ["PnP Weekly"]
images:
- images/pnp-weekly-215-promo.png
tags: []
videos:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0hdyHBL6Vs
draft: false
---
 
In this installment of the weekly discussion revolving around the latest news and topics on Microsoft 365, host – [Vesa Juvonen](http://twitter.com/vesajuvonen) (Microsoft) | @vesajuvonen and [Waldek Mastykarz](http://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) | @waldekm are joined by London-based Europe Workplace Value Realization Lead and Microsoft MVP - [Zoe Wilson](https://twitter.com/SharePoint_Zoe) (Avanade) \| @SharePoint_Zoe

PnP Weekly is now on summer holiday until end of August.  Enjoy your summer/winter for the next 2 months.  We will return with Episode 216.    

## Topics discussed in this session

* How Zoe’s role differs from a delivery consultant’s role.
* Talk of value realization and business process optimization.
* Tips for staying up to date on products.
* How do you/Avanade come up with an offering for customers?
* IT vs Business Decision making.
* Favorite productivity hack you can do on Microsoft 365?
* Community work and specifically about the Viva Explorer program.
* What is special about Viva and what Viva modules would you recommend to a customer?
* What is the one thing we should fix at Microsoft?
* Tips for people to get started on presenting at events. Mentorships and sponsorships.
* Tips to women considering/building a career in IT?
* How should customers prepare for Copilot and generative AI?
 
## Referenced during conversation

* Viva Explorers - <https://www.vivaexplorers.com/>
* Video - [Momentum building example!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GA8z7f7a2Pk)

There were 22 articles or videos covered within this episode produced by Microsoft and community members.  

## This week

* **Zoe** – leading Workplace Value Realization + Copilot and Generative AI perspectives for Avanade = spending much time advocating with clients and educating colleagues on preparing for these topics.
* **Waldek** – reviewing a bunch of cool apps submitted during HackTogether: The Microsoft Teams Global Hack that ended June 15th.
* **Vesa** – back from vacation, catching up on things and reviewing Hacks, national holiday – Midsummer on Friday.

## Agenda items

[00:00](https://youtu.be/r0hdyHBL6Vs?t=0) – Intro

[01:58](https://youtu.be/r0hdyHBL6Vs?t=118) – Interview

[47:54](https://youtu.be/r0hdyHBL6Vs?t=2874) – Articles

[1:19:27](https://youtu.be/r0hdyHBL6Vs?t=4227) – Closing

## Action requested

Please remember to keep on providing us feedback on how we can help on this journey. We always welcome feedback on making the community more inclusive and diverse.

This session was recorded on Monday 19th of June and released on 20th of June, 2023.

*   Video at [Microsoft 365 Community YouTube channel.](https://aka.ms/m365pnp-videos)
    {{< youtube r0hdyHBL6Vs >}}
*   Podcast at [https://pnpweekly.podbean.com.](https://pnpweekly.podbean.com/) 
    {{< podbean pb-x9kti-14397ae >}}

These videos and podcasts are published each week and are intended to be roughly 45 - 60 minutes in length.  Please do give us feedback on this video and podcast series and also do let us know if you have done something cool/useful so that we can cover that in the next weekly summary! The easiest way to let us know is to share your work on Twitter and add the hashtag [#PnPWeekly](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23pnpweekly). We are always on the lookout for refreshingly new content. “_Sharing is caring!”_ 

## Microsoft articles

* [Now in public preview: Collaborative notes in Microsoft Teams Meetings](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-teams-blog/now-in-public-preview-collaborative-notes-in-microsoft-teams/ba-p/3848533) - Alexis Johnston (Microsoft)
* [How ISVs are driving customer retention by enabling unique experiences in Microsoft Teams](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-teams-blog/how-isvs-are-driving-customer-retention-by-enabling-unique/ba-p/3842419) - Evan Westenberger (Microsoft)
* [What’s New for Microsoft Teams Rooms and Teams Meetings at InfoComm 2023](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-teams-blog/what-s-new-for-microsoft-teams-rooms-and-teams-meetings-at/ba-p/3843949) - Matt Taylor (Microsoft)
* [Microsoft Viva Pulse available for public preview](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-viva-blog/microsoft-viva-pulse-available-for-public-preview/ba-p/3838338) - Tranissa Creme (Microsoft)
* [“The SharePoint experience” 🎙 – The Intrazone podcast](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-sharepoint-blog/the-sharepoint-experience-the-intrazone-podcast/ba-p/3848507) - [Mark Kashman](https://twitter.com/mkashman) (Microsoft) | @mkashman
* [Deploying Microsoft Viva Connections internally at Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/insidetrack/blog/deploying-microsoft-viva-connections-internally-at-microsoft/) - Keith Boyd (Microsoft)
* [24 New Verified, 29 New Independent Publisher and 37 Updated Connectors available](https://powerautomate.microsoft.com/blog/24-new-verified-29-new-independent-publisher-and-37-updated-connectors-available/) - Amjed Ayoub (Microsoft)
* [Run Your Enterprise on Power Platform with New Enterprise Application Templates](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/blog/run-your-enterprise-on-power-platform-with-new-enterprise-application-templates/) - [Ryan Cunningham](https://twitter.com/rc_says) (Microsoft) | @rc_says
* [Announcing General Availability for Power Platform Customer-managed key (CMK)](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/blog/announcing-general-availability-for-power-platform-customer-managed-key-cmk/) - Paul Liew (Microsoft)
* [Fluid Framework 2.0 Alpha is now available](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/fluid-framework-2-0-alpha-is-now-available/) - Kashif Qureshi (Microsoft) & Nick Simons (Microsoft)
* [What’s new for Office Add-ins: Announcements from Build 2023](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/whats-new-for-office-add-ins-announcements-from-build-2023/) - Microsoft
* [Announcing Microsoft Graph Toolkit v3.0 release candidate](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/microsoft365dev/announcing-microsoft-graph-toolkit-v3-0-release-candidate/) - [Sébastien Levert](https://twitter.com/sebastienlevert) (Microsoft) | @sebastienlevert

## Videos

* [Get A First Look At Power Automate Copilot!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uKNL1y_9R9o) - [April Dunnam](https://twitter.com/aprildunnam) (Microsoft) | @aprildunnam
* [Say Goodbye to Emails: Simplify TPS Reports with Teams Adaptive Cards](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_O08-bbBVy4) - [Shane Young](https://twitter.com/ShanesCows) (PowerApps911) | @ShanesCows
* [🤖 How to use AI in Power Apps aka Copilot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvQhMScIxuk) - [Giuliano De Luca](https://twitter.com/DeLucaGiulian) | @delucagiulian
* [Episode #251 - Microsoft Teams Toolkit v5.0 from Zero to Hero: Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nP95bYEO4mE) - [Paolo Pialorsi](https://twitter.com/PaoloPia) (PiaSys) | @PaoloPia

## Community articles

* [Use Viva Connections Toolkit for VS Code to boost your productivity with SharePoint Framework projects](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/viva-connections-toolkit-vscode-general-intro/) - [Adam Wójcik](https://twitter.com/Adam25858782) (Hitachi Energy) | @Adam25858782
* [CLI for Microsoft 365 and PnP Powershell VS Code extensions](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/cli-for-microsoft365-and-pnp-powershell-vs-code-extensions/) - [Adam Wójcik](https://twitter.com/Adam25858782) (Hitachi Energy) | @Adam25858782
* [TGIWE 02 – Another Friday – finally, a new article](https://n8d.at/tgiwe02-another-friday-finally-a-new-article) - [Stefan Bauer](https://twitter.com/StfBauer) (N8D) | @StfBauer
* [Configuring the CLI for Microsoft 365 in Azure Functions](https://www.blimped.nl/configuring-the-cli-for-microsoft-365-in-azure-functions) - [Martin Lingstuyl](https://twitter.com/martinlingstuyl) (I4-YOU Business Solutions) | @martinlingstuyl
* [Microsoft Search Roadmap Updates – June 2023](https://searchexplained.com/microsoft-search-roadmap-updates-202306/) - Oleg Petryk (Search Explained)
* [Performance of the Graph API, REST API and Web Services with SharePoint and Power Automate](https://sharepains.com/2023/06/13/performance-of-the-graph-api/) - [Pieter Veenstra](https://twitter.com/PieterVeenstra) (HybrIT Services) | @PieterVeenstra

## Upcoming events

Here are the upcoming events from the centralized [Community Days site](https://communitydays.org/events?when=upcoming) where you can find in-person, hybrid and online events for Microsoft 365 and more.

* [European Power Platform conference](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/european-power-platform-conference/), June 20-22, 2023 - Dublin, Ireland
* [Commsverse 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-21/commsverse-2023) - June 21-22, 2023 - Surrey, United Kingdom
* [Dynamics 365 Bootcamp CX Summit](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-06-23/dynamics-365-bootcamp-cx-summit) - June 23-24, 2023 - Brussels, Belgium
* [CollabDays Zagreb](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-07-01/collabdays-zagreb) - July 1, 2023 - Zagreb, Croatio
* [365 EduCon Seattle](https://365educon.com/Seattle/) – August 21-25, 2023 - Seattle, WA, USA
* [Metaverse One 2023](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-09-20/metaverse-one-2023) - September 20, 2023 - Virtual
* [South Coast Summit 2023](https://www.southcoastsummit.com/) - October 13-14, 2023 - Farnborough, United Kingdom
* [Microsoft Ignite 2023](https://ignite.microsoft.com/) - November 15-16, 2023
* [CollabDays Lisbon 2023](https://www.collabdays.org/2023-lisbon/) - November 25, 2023 - Lisbon, Portugal
* [European SharePoint, Office 365 & Azure Conference 2023](https://www.sharepointeurope.com/) - November 27-30 - Amsterdam, Netherlands
* [AMS Aachen](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2023-11-28/ams-aachen) - November 28, 2023 - Aachen, Germany
* [European Cloud Summit](https://www.cloudsummit.eu/) - December 4-6, 2023 - Wiesbaden, Germany

## Additional resources

* [PnP Sharing is Caring initiative](https://aka.ms/sharing-is-caring) - Getting started guidance and training for using GitHub and contributing to the community
* Check out all the great community calls, SDKs, and tooling for Microsoft 365 and Power Platform from <https://aka.ms/m365/community>

If you’d like to hear from a specific community member in an upcoming recording and/or have specific questions for Microsoft 365 engineering or visitors – please let us know. We will do our best to address your requests or questions.

_"Sharing is caring!"_ 🧡
