content/microsoft-365-pnp-weekly/episode-243/index.md, before:

---
title: "Microsoft 365 PnP Weekly - Episode 243 - Tony Redmond"
summary: "Microsoft MVP and Principal - Tony Redmond joins Microsoft’s Vesa Juvonen and Waldek Mastykarz in a discussion on his career path and community involvement."
date: 2024-04-02T02:00:01-00:00
author: "Vesa Juvonen"
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories: ["PnP Weekly"]
images:
- images/pnp-weekly-240-promo.png
tags: []
videos:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0mNeLOKOgi0
draft: true
---

In this episode of the weekly discussion revolving around the latest news and topics on Microsoft 365, host – [Vesa Juvonen](http://twitter.com/vesajuvonen) (Microsoft) and [Waldek Mastykarz](http://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) are joined by [Tony Redmond](https://twitter.com/12Knocksinna), Principal at Redmond & Associates, MVP.

## In this episode

- How Microsoft 365 evolved as platform over the years
- Opportunity for ISV on Microsoft 365
- The role of scripting and automation in managing Microsoft 365
- The importance of data management and governance in the era of AI

## References


## This week

- **Jussi** – planning a new project, attending Ignite in Switzerland
- **Waldek** – Launched an experimental learn module with a simulated dev environment
- **Vesa** – attending MVP summit in person

## Agenda items

[00:00](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=alowHTRvyr0&t=0s) – Intro

[01:10](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=alowHTRvyr0&t=70s) – Interview

[01:10](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=alowHTRvyr0&t=70s) – Closing

## Action requested

Please remember to keep on providing us feedback on how we can help on this journey. We always welcome feedback on making the community more inclusive and diverse.

This session was recorded on Wednesday 27th of March. Session was published on Tuesday 12th of March, 2024.

*   Video at [Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community YouTube channel.](https://aka.ms/m365pnp-videos)
    {{< youtube alowHTRvyr0 >}}
*   Podcast at [https://pnpweekly.podbean.com.](https://pnpweekly.podbean.com/)
    {{< podbean pb-b29mi-159ed0a >}}

These videos and podcasts are published each week and are intended to be roughly 45 - 60 minutes in length.  Please do give us feedback on this video and podcast series and also do let us know if you have done something cool/useful so that we can cover that in the next weekly summary! The easiest way to let us know is to share your work on Twitter and add the hashtag [#PnPWeekly](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23pnpweekly). We are always on the lookout for refreshingly new content. “_Sharing is caring!”_ 

## Articles & Videos

No articles or videos covered in this week's episode as we recorded in non-usual time.

## Samples

Check out all cool samples from community and from Microsoft. You can access all of them from the Unified Microsoft 365 & Power Platform sample gallery at [https://aka.ms/community/samples](https://aka.ms/community/samples). 

## Upcoming events

Here are the upcoming events from the centralized [Community Days site](https://communitydays.org/events?when=upcoming) where you can find in-person, hybrid and online events for Microsoft 365 and more.

* [Canadian Power Platform Summit](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-03-15/canadian-power-platform-summit) - March 15-16, 2024 - Vancouver, Canada
* [Modern Workpalce Conference Paris 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-03-18/modern-workplace-conference-paris-2024) - March 18-19, 2024 - Paris, France
* [AMS Lausanne 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-05/ams-lausanne-2024) - April 5, 2024 - Lausanne, Switzerland
* [M365 Community Days NJ](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-06/m365-community-days-nj) - April 6-7, 2024 - New Jersey, USA
* [North American Cloud and Collaboration Summit](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-09/north-american-cloud-and-collaboration-summit) - April 9-12, 2024 - Irving, TX, USA
* [CollabDays Poland 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-11/collabdays-poland-2024) - April 11-12, 2024 - Wassaw, Poland
* [Modern Endpoint Management Summit 2024 EMEA Edition](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-17/modern-endpoint-management-summit-2024-emea-edition) - April 17-19, 2024 - Issy-les-Moulineaux, France
* [D365UG Sverige](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-17/d365ug-sverige) - April 17, 2024 - Stockholm, Sverige
* [ColorCloud](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-18/colorcloud) - April 18 - 19, 2024 - Hamburg, Germany
* [CollabDays Utah](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-19/collabdays-utah) - April 19-20, 2024 - Utah, USA
* [MN M365 12th Bi-annual Spring Workshop Day](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-19/mn-m365-12th-bi-annual-spring-workshop-day) - April 19-20, 2024 - Edina, MN, USA
* [Comms VNext](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-23/comms-vnext) - April 23-25, 2024 - Denver, CO, USA
* [Dynaway CONNECT](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-23/dynaway-connect) - April 23-25, 2024 - Greenviile, USA
* [AMS Papeete](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-25/ams-papeete) - April 25, 2024 - Tahiti, French Polyseia
* [BizApps-Palooza](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-26/bizapps-palooza-2024) - April 26-27, 2024 - Toronto, Canada
* [D365 Summit 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-26/dynamics-365-summit-2024) - April 26-27, 2024 - Lisbon, Portugal
* [AMS Noumea](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-30/ams-noumea) - April 30, 2024 - Nouméa, New Caledonia
* [DynamicsCon LIVE](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-05-13/dynamicscon-live) - May 14-16, 2024 - Denver, CO, USA
* [DynamicsMinds 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-05-27/dynamicsminds-2024) - May 27-29, 2024 - Portorož, Slovenia

## Additional resources

* [PnP Sharing is Caring initiative](https://aka.ms/sharing-is-caring) - Getting started guidance and training for using GitHub and contributing to the community
* Check out all the great community calls, SDKs, and tooling for Microsoft 365 and Power Platform from <https://aka.ms/m365/community>

If you’d like to hear from a specific community member in an upcoming recording and/or have specific questions for Microsoft 365 engineering or visitors – please let us know. We will do our best to address your requests or questions.

_"Sharing is caring!"_ 🧡

Commit message:

Preparing PnP Weekly with Tony Redmond

content/microsoft-365-pnp-weekly/episode-243/index.md, after:

---
title: "Microsoft 365 PnP Weekly - Episode 243 - Tony Redmond"
summary: "Microsoft MVP and Principal - Tony Redmond joins Microsoft’s Vesa Juvonen and Waldek Mastykarz in a discussion on his career path and community involvement."
date: 2024-04-02T02:00:01-00:00
author: "Vesa Juvonen"
githubname: VesaJuvonen
categories: ["PnP Weekly"]
images:
- images/pnp-weekly-243-promo.png
tags: []
videos:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0mNeLOKOgi0
draft: true
---

In this episode of the weekly discussion revolving around the latest news and topics on Microsoft 365, host – [Vesa Juvonen](http://twitter.com/vesajuvonen) (Microsoft) and [Waldek Mastykarz](http://twitter.com/waldekm) (Microsoft) are joined by [Tony Redmond](https://twitter.com/12Knocksinna), Principal at Redmond & Associates, MVP.

## In this episode

- How Microsoft 365 evolved as platform over the years
- Opportunity for ISV on Microsoft 365
- The role of scripting and automation in managing Microsoft 365
- The importance of data management and governance in the era of AI

## References


## This week

- **Tony** – M365 conference, talking about using Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK and using Copilot for Microsoft 365 intelligently
- **Waldek** – released new version of Dev Proxy and CLI for Microsoft 365, publishing new content on Microsoft learn around extending Microsoft Copilot for Microsoft 365
- **Vesa** – preparing for the M365 conference, releasing new preview version of SPFx

## Agenda items

[00:00](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0mNeLOKOgi0&t=0s) – Intro

[01:10](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0mNeLOKOgi0&t=121s) – Interview

[01:10](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0mNeLOKOgi0&t=2954s) – Closing

## Action requested

Please remember to keep on providing us feedback on how we can help on this journey. We always welcome feedback on making the community more inclusive and diverse.

This session was recorded on Wednesday 27th of March. Session was published on Tuesday 2nd of April, 2024.

*   Video at [Microsoft 365 & Power Platform Community YouTube channel.](https://aka.ms/m365pnp-videos)
    {{< youtube 0mNeLOKOgi0 >}}
*   Podcast at [https://pnpweekly.podbean.com.](https://pnpweekly.podbean.com/)
    {{< podbean pb-tj8fc-15c642e >}}

These videos and podcasts are published each week and are intended to be roughly 45 - 60 minutes in length.  Please do give us feedback on this video and podcast series and also do let us know if you have done something cool/useful so that we can cover that in the next weekly summary! The easiest way to let us know is to share your work on Twitter and add the hashtag [#PnPWeekly](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23pnpweekly). We are always on the lookout for refreshingly new content. “_Sharing is caring!”_ 

## Articles & Videos

No articles or videos covered in this week's episode as we recorded in non-usual time.

## Samples

Check out all cool samples from community and from Microsoft. You can access all of them from the Unified Microsoft 365 & Power Platform sample gallery at [https://aka.ms/community/samples](https://aka.ms/community/samples). 

## Upcoming events

Here are the upcoming events from the centralized [Community Days site](https://communitydays.org/events?when=upcoming) where you can find in-person, hybrid and online events for Microsoft 365 and more.

* [AMS Lausanne 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-05/ams-lausanne-2024) - April 5, 2024 - Lausanne, Switzerland
* [M365 Community Days NJ](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-06/m365-community-days-nj) - April 6-7, 2024 - New Jersey, USA
* [North American Cloud and Collaboration Summit](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-09/north-american-cloud-and-collaboration-summit) - April 9-12, 2024 - Irving, TX, USA
* [CollabDays Poland 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-11/collabdays-poland-2024) - April 11-12, 2024 - Wassaw, Poland
* [Modern Endpoint Management Summit 2024 EMEA Edition](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-17/modern-endpoint-management-summit-2024-emea-edition) - April 17-19, 2024 - Issy-les-Moulineaux, France
* [D365UG Sverige](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-17/d365ug-sverige) - April 17, 2024 - Stockholm, Sverige
* [ColorCloud](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-18/colorcloud) - April 18 - 19, 2024 - Hamburg, Germany
* [CollabDays Utah](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-19/collabdays-utah) - April 19-20, 2024 - Utah, USA
* [MN M365 12th Bi-annual Spring Workshop Day](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-19/mn-m365-12th-bi-annual-spring-workshop-day) - April 19-20, 2024 - Edina, MN, USA
* [Comms VNext](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-23/comms-vnext) - April 23-25, 2024 - Denver, CO, USA
* [Dynaway CONNECT](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-23/dynaway-connect) - April 23-25, 2024 - Greenviile, USA
* [AMS Papeete](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-25/ams-papeete) - April 25, 2024 - Tahiti, French Polyseia
* [BizApps-Palooza](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-26/bizapps-palooza-2024) - April 26-27, 2024 - Toronto, Canada
* [D365 Summit 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-26/dynamics-365-summit-2024) - April 26-27, 2024 - Lisbon, Portugal
* [AMS Noumea](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-04-30/ams-noumea) - April 30, 2024 - Nouméa, New Caledonia
* [DynamicsCon LIVE](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-05-13/dynamicscon-live) - May 14-16, 2024 - Denver, CO, USA
* [DynamicsMinds 2024](https://www.communitydays.org/event/2024-05-27/dynamicsminds-2024) - May 27-29, 2024 - Portorož, Slovenia

## Additional resources

* [PnP Sharing is Caring initiative](https://aka.ms/sharing-is-caring) - Getting started guidance and training for using GitHub and contributing to the community
* Check out all the great community calls, SDKs, and tooling for Microsoft 365 and Power Platform from <https://aka.ms/m365/community>

If you’d like to hear from a specific community member in an upcoming recording and/or have specific questions for Microsoft 365 engineering or visitors – please let us know. We will do our best to address your requests or questions.

_"Sharing is caring!"_ 🧡
