content/post/Teams-toolkit-cloudskills-challenge/index.md, before:

---
title: Teams Toolkit Cloud Skills Challenge
description: "Join the Teams Toolkit Cloud Skills Challenge, learn how to build apps for Teams and win prizes!"
date: 2023-04-10T07:30:58.941Z
author: Luise Freese
githubname: LuiseFreese
categories:
  - Community post
images:
  - images/lego-laptop.jpg
tags:
  - Microsoft Teams

type: regular
draft: true
---

👋 Hey, fellow developers!

You like to #NeverStopLearning and feel that #SharingIsCaring? Then this here is exactly for you! Today, I have the great honor to announce the Teams Toolkit Cloud Skills challenge, which I host for you.

It is an amazing opportunity to take your app development skills to the next level:


## Join us!

- Complete the learnpath [aka.ms/LearnTeamsToolkit](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/challenges?id=131a4a86-7d76-4ead-891f-aeaf5b7d32df)
Join us from April 12 to April 26 and participate in the challenge to complete the Teams Toolkit learn path on . Not only will you enhance your knowledge and capabilities, but you will also be eligible to win fab prizes. The following prizes will be awarded: Ten (10) Grand Prize winners. Each winner will receive the choice of either a $100 digital gift card or $100 Azure credits. Approximate Retail Value (ARV) $1000.

By completing the learn path, you will learn how to leverage Teams Toolkit, covered by five modules:

- [Get started building apps for Microsoft Teams by using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-introduction/)
- [Build a bot by using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-create-bot/)
- [Build a Microsoft Teams tab app by using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-tab-app/)
- [Add chat to a Microsoft Teams app by using the Teams JavaScript client library](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-integrate-chat/)
- [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-integrate-chat/](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-deploy-apps/)

With that, they provide a comprehensive and in-depth experience that covers everything you need to know to get started building apps for Teams.

With Teams Toolkit, you can streamline the app development process and make the most of the platform's features, including creating bots that can automate tasks, developing tabs that can display information from external services, and building message extensions that enable users to interact with external services from within Teams.

## Contributing

What's more, once you complete the challenge, you will have the opportunity to contribute to the community by creating samples and getting featured on [adoption.microsoft.com](https://adoption.microsoft.com/sample-solution-gallery/). This way, you can showcase your skills, help others, and become a recognized member of the community.

Don't miss this incredible opportunity to enhance your skills and join the Microsoft Cloud skill challenge for Teams Toolkit. 

I can't wait to see what you create! 

## How to get started

- Complete the learnpath [aka.ms/LearnTeamsToolkit](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/challenges?id=131a4a86-7d76-4ead-891f-aeaf5b7d32df)
- Post on Twitter or LinkedIn about it using the hashtag #LearnTeamsToolkit
- Tag me [Luise Freese](https://twitter.com/LuiseFreese) | @LuiseFreese

## Learn more

- [Garry's post on M365 Dev blog]()
- [Teams Toolkit Overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/platform/toolkit/teams-toolkit-fundamentals?pivots=visual-studio-code)
- [Teams Toolkit on VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=TeamsDevApp.ms-teams-vscode-extension)

Commit message:

adds TTK article (#1213)
* attempts to fix deployment by replacing epic by trending and one older trending post by regular type

* adds weekly agenda 48

* adds weekly agenda and new post

* adds one more contribution to weekly agenda

* adds weekly agenda and new blog post

* adds m365 dev blog post to agenda

* link fix

* link fix

* link fix

* link fix

* link fix

* more link fixes

* link fixes

* adds weekly agenda

* adds conf

* adds new article and references it in weekly agenda

* changes image

* adds image

* adds weekly agenda

* first attempt to fix weird bug

* cleanup

* 3rd attempt to fix weird bug

* 4th attempt - renames folder to be case sensitive

* reverts to 3rd attempt

* adds weekly agenda

* some link fixes

* adds weekly agenda 03

* adds new weekly agenda

* adds weekly agenda

* adds weekly agenda 06

* adds summary

* adds Rabias Blog post

* minor formatting in Techkans post

* minor formatting

* corrects image links

* adds weekly agenda

* adds info on identity and monthly pp call to weekly agenda 07

* adds contributors from PNP repos

* adds weekly agenda 08

* adds Matteo

* adds weekly agenda

* adds weekly agenda 10

* adds latest contributors from pnp repos

* adds contributors from last 2 weeks calls

* adds weekly agenda 11

* adds pp monthly call topics to agenda

* corrects code in article

* adds weekly agenda 12

* adds weekly agenda 13

* adds new article

* adds weekly agenda

* adds article

* adds article

* adds some links to learn path and corrects prizes

* readd article

* corrects folder name

* adds agenda 15

* corrects weekly agenda 15

* Updates for CSC

* Updated rules.gif

* Update index.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Rabia Williams <rabiawilliams@gmail.com>

content/post/Teams-toolkit-cloudskills-challenge/index.md, after:

---
title: Teams Toolkit Cloud Skills Challenge
description: "Join the Teams Toolkit Cloud Skills Challenge, learn how to build apps for Teams and win prizes!"
date: 2023-04-10T07:30:58.941Z
author: Luise Freese
githubname: LuiseFreese
categories:
  - Community post
images:
  - images/lego-laptop.jpg
tags:
  - Microsoft Teams

type: regular
draft: true
---

👋 Hey, fellow developers!

You like to #NeverStopLearning and feel that #SharingIsCaring? Then this here is exactly for you! Today, I have the great honor to announce the Teams Toolkit Cloud Skills challenge, which I host for you.

It is an amazing opportunity to take your app development skills to the next level!

## Join us!

- Join us from April 12 to April 26 and participate in the challenge to complete the learn path [aka.ms/LearnTeamsToolkit](https://aka.ms/LearnTeamsToolkit).

Not only will you enhance your skills to develop apps for Teams, but you will also be eligible to win fab prizes. The following prizes will be awarded: Ten (10) Grand Prize winners. Each winner will receive the choice of either a $100 digital gift card or $100 Azure credits. Approximate Retail Value (ARV) $1000.

By completing the learn path, you will learn how to leverage Teams Toolkit, a Visual Studio Code extension to build apps for Teams, covered by five modules:

- [Get started building apps for Microsoft Teams by using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-introduction/)
- [Build a bot by using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-create-bot/)
- [Build a Microsoft Teams tab app by using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-tab-app/)
- [Add chat to a Microsoft Teams app by using the Teams JavaScript client library](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-integrate-chat/)
- [Deploy a Microsoft Teams app to Azure by using Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/teams-toolkit-vsc-deploy-apps/)

With that, they provide a comprehensive and in-depth experience that covers everything you need to know to get started building apps for Teams.

With Teams Toolkit, you can streamline the app development process and make the most of the platform's features, including creating bots that can automate tasks, developing tabs that can display information from external services, and building message extensions that enable users to interact with external services from within Teams.

## Contributing

What's more, once you completed the challenge, you will have the opportunity to contribute to the community by creating samples and getting featured on [adoption.microsoft.com](https://adoption.microsoft.com/sample-solution-gallery/). This way, you can showcase your skills, help others, and become a recognized member of the community.

Don't miss this incredible opportunity to enhance your skills and join the Teams Toolkit Cloud Skills Challenge.

I can't wait to see what you create! 

## How to get started

- Register for the challenge and complete the learn path [aka.ms/LearnTeamsToolkit](https://aka.ms/LearnTeamsToolkit)
- Post on Twitter or LinkedIn about it using the hashtag #LearnTeamsToolkit
- Tag me [Luise Freese](https://twitter.com/LuiseFreese) | @LuiseFreese

## Registration house-keeping

When you register make sure to check **the official rules** link, and take the survey. This will make you compliant for winning prizes. Once the survey form is filled out, select the check box to agree to the rules and proceed to register by selecting the **Continue** button.

![ a GIF to show how to correctly register for the cloud skills challenge](./images/rules.gif)

## Learn more

- [Teams Toolkit Overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/platform/toolkit/teams-toolkit-fundamentals?pivots=visual-studio-code)
- [Teams Toolkit on VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=TeamsDevApp.ms-teams-vscode-extension)
